Display advertising is the prevalent way for publishers to monetize content on the Web.
Publishers receive payment from advertisers for placing ads near their content or in their applications.
Payments can be determined by a contract or a real-time auction.
In either arrangement, publishers are typically paid by the number of impressions they can deliver.
Thus, they have an incentive to attract and retain users with Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Committee (IW3C2).
IW3C2 reserves the right to provide a hyperlink to the author s site if the Material is used in electronic media.
valuable content, experiences, and applications, and have a disincentive to lose users due to annoyances.
Display ads vary in the extent to which they annoy users.
Annoying ads are a source of tension for publishers since they both make money, through payments from advertisers, and cost money, through a decrease in page views due to users abandoning the site.
This tension has led to con ict within publishing organizations between salespeople, who have an incentive in the form of commission to sell any ads, and management, who are concerned with long-term growth of users and tra c.
The continued long-term display of annoying ads may exert negative e ects on the publisher, the user, and the advertiser, which we discuss in turn.
First, annoying ads can exert negative e ects on publishers.
Apart from the user abandonment e ects we investigate in this paper, annoying ads might signal that the website on which the ad is placed on lacks stability ( Why should I trust my email to a site that is so desperate for cash it accepts ads of such poor quality? ), reputability ( Why should I trust the objectivity of a site that is so in the pocket of advertisers it won t refuse any of them? ), or safety ( Why would I trust this publisher to protect me from phishing attacks, scams, malware, etc.
if they are so indiscriminate about who they let advertise? ).
Second, annoying ads can exert a negative impact on users.
Ads with excessive animation can get in the way of the user consuming the publisher s content, undermining the very reason that brought them to the site.
In what follows, we document users reporting that annoying ads distract them.
Furthermore, we provide experimental evidence that annoying ads impair accuracy on a cognitive task.
Finally, annoying ads may harm the advertiser that created them.
As will be shown, annoying ads are often characterized by exaggerated attempts to capture visual attention such as through fast-moving animation or bizarre imagery.
While these manipulations do capture attention, they may also signal that the advertiser is desperate for business or low on resources, undermining the classical signal of quality that advertising is theorized to bring [15].
Furthermore, experiments have shown that too much animation can result in lower ad recognition rates compared to ads with moderate or no animation [21, 2].
In these ways, annoying ads may actually lower brand reputation and recall, two metrics advertisers typically strive to increase.
If annoying ads exhibit so many negative e ects for publishers, users and advertisers, one may wonder why a publisher would run annoying ads at all.
The answer may be that it is has been historically di cult to measure the mon-
of this work is that we measure the compensating wage differential of annoying ads.
That is, we measure how much more one must pay a user to do the same amount of work in the presence of annoying ads compared to innocuous ads or no ads.
The compensating di erential is important to measure because it captures some of the negative e ects of advertising, which publishers need to heed as a lower bound when setting the price to run an ad.
In a two-experiment investigation, we compute the compensating di erential for annoying ads.
In the  rst experiment users randomly rated either an animated ad or its static counterpart.
This design shows that animation has a negative impact on user ratings.
For those ads that users rate as annoying we ask them to explain their thinking.
An analysis of the ratings and comments yields a better of understanding of what users  nd annoying about these ads.
This analysis will also exhibit how annoying ads negatively a ect user perceptions of advertisers.
These analyses are additional contributions of this work.
In the second experiment, we use those ads identi ed as more or less annoying, along with the recent methodological innovation of Toomim et al. [18], to estimate the pay rate increase necessary to generate an equal number of page views in the presence of annoying ads, compared to innocuous ads or no ads.
This estimate is the cost of annoying ads in our experiment.
We chose categorizing emails as the task to proxy for using a publisher s site because users either implicitly or explicitly need to categorize their emails as spam or not spam in the presence of ads when using free web-based email services such as Yahoo!
Mail, GMail, and Mail.com.
Finally, we provide a theoretical model of how our empirical  ndings could a ect the display advertising industry, which is the third contribution of this work.
As mentioned in Section 1, we use the methodological innovation of Toomim et al. [18] for computing compensating di erentials.
Toomim et al. conducted a Mechanical Turk experiment in which participants randomly experienced an easy, medium, or hard version of a task at a randomly assigned pay rate.
This allowed the authors to compute how much more one would have to pay a worker to do the hard task over the medium and easy tasks.
The authors also exhibited this technique in an experiment in which participants were randomly assigned to use either an  ugly  or a  pretty  interface to do a task.
We will use this technique to isolate the e ect of the ad quality on user abandonment.
Next, we describe prior experimental work which studies the impact of ad quality on behavior.
Dreze and Hussherr [4] conducted an experiment on the effectiveness of display advertisements using eye-tracking technology.
Their conclusion, that users rarely focus directly on banner ads, is often referred to as banner blindness, a term coined by Benway [1].
Burke et al. [2] had participants perform visual search tasks in the presence of no ads, a static display ad, or an animated display ad.
They found that ads did reduce search time, however, there was no signi cant di erence between animated and static ads.
Perhaps even more surprisingly, they did a post hoc test which found that animated ads were remembered less frequently than static ads.
Yoo and Kim [21] asked a similar research question.
They conducted a larger-scale laboratory experiment in which participants were randomly exposed to web pages with ads with no animation, slow-moving animation or fast-moving animation.
They found that more animation did increase attention to ads.
Moreover, moderate animation increased ad recognition rates and brand attitudes.
Highly animated ads, however, decreased recognition rates and brand attitudes.
This result complements the results of Burke et al. [2].
Yoo and Kim [21] conclude that,  Web advertisers should be aware of the possibility that excessive animation can back re against the original intention of e ective communication.  Goldfarb and Tucker [5] conducted a  eld experiment in which they found that ads that matched the site s content or ads that were intrusive increased participant s self-reported intent to purchase.
However, ads that were both intrusive and matched the website s content reduced intent to purchase.
Ads were considered intrusive if, for example, they produced a popup window, took over the whole screen, played music, or obscured the web page text.
The authors suggest that the reason for this interaction e ect is that users are more sensitive to targeted and intrusive ads when the product advertised is privacy sensitive.
In the context of sponsored search, Buscher et al. [3] found that ads that are relevant to the search terms received more visual attention than ads that were less relevant.
This complements the results of Goldfarb and Tucker [5] which were found in the domain of display advertising.
Taken as a whole, these studies suggest there may be ben-e ts to a small degree of animation or intrusiveness in advertising, but that too much animation or intrusiveness can have a detrimental impact on the ad e ectiveness.
We next describe our experiments, both of which were conducted on Amazon s Mechanical Turk1, an online labor market.
Since it was originally built for jobs that are dif- cult for computers but are easy for humans (e.g., image recognition), jobs on Mechanical Turk are called Human Intelligence Tasks or HITs.
There are two types of people on Mechanical Turk: requesters and workers.
Requesters can post HITs and workers can choose which HITs to do for pay.
After a worker submits a HIT, the requester can either accept or reject the work based on its quality.
The fraction of HITs that a worker submits which are accepted is that worker s approval rating.
This functions as a reputation mechanism.
The Amazon API gives each worker account a unique, anonymous identi er.
By tracking the IDs of the workers who accepted our HITs, we could enforce that participants were only allowed to participate in one of the two experiments, and they were only allowed to do that experiment one time.
There is a burgeoning literature on conducting behavioral experiments on Mechanical Turk [12, 11, 16, 6, 7, 20, 13, 9,
 requester and the workers are the paid participants of the experiment.
Mason and Suri [10] provide a how-to guide for conducting behavioral experiments on Mechanical Turk.
We now describe the design and results of our  rst experiment, which served to identify sets of more and less annoying ads 1http://www.mturk.com 460(henceforth  bad ads  and  good ads  for brevity) for use in the second experiment.
The goal of this experiment is to rank a set of actual display ads in terms of annoyingness and to collect reasons why people  nd certain ads annoying.
The preview page of the HIT explained that workers would  rst browse through all of the ads in the experiment and then rate them one by one.
After accepting the HIT, participants were shown 9 pages of ads, with 4 ads per page, and instructions to take a quick look at each page.
This was done to familiarize respondents with the items they would ultimately rate to reduce random order e ects in their later use of a rating scale.
This was also done so that participants could calibrate their use of the rating scale [14].
Next, users were shown each ad individually, again in random order, and asked to rate each ad on a 5-point scale with the following levels:
 iment
 iment

 periment
 periment After rating every ad on this scale, participants were then shown only the ads they rated as annoying (i.e.,  A bit more annoying than the average ad in this experiment  or  Much more annoying than the average ad in this experiment ) and asked to write a few words as to why they found the ad annoying.
We used a pool of 144 ads, 72 of which were skyscrapers (either 120 or 160 pixels wide by 600 pixels high) and 72 of which were medium rectangles (300 pixels wide by 250 pixels high).
The ads primarily came from Adverlicious2, an online display advertising archive.
A worker was randomly assigned to either see all skyscrapers or all medium rectangles.
The 144 ads used in the experiment were created from 72 animated ads, from which we created an additional 72 static variants by taking a screenshot of each animated ad s  nal frame.
The animation in display ads typically lasts only a few seconds and then settles into a  nal frame which serves as a static ad for the rest of the time the ad is in view.
The  nal frame is usually a good representation of the ad since it often shows the advertiser name with the same general design, creative, and color scheme as the animated part.
This technique, which resulted in 72 animated/static pairs, allowed us to study the e ect of animation on annoyance, holding all other properties of the ads constant.
For each ad pair, workers were randomly assigned to see either the static or animated variant.
Since this random assignment was done per pair, each participant saw a mixture of both animated and static ads.
We paid each worker a $0.25  at rate and a bonus of $0.02 per ad rated.
Since we had users input free text, we 2http://adverlicio.us Category Animation Attentional Impact Aesthetics Reputation Logic Example Words move, motion, animate annoy, distract, attention ugly, busy, loud, cheap scam, spam, fake sense, weird, stupid Count




 Table 1: Categorization of words found in the participants  comments on the ads they found annoying used the Amazon API to restrict to U.S. workers to help ensure a good grasp of the English language.
We also used the Amazon API to require workers have at least a 95% approval rating.
The experiment ran for 18 hours and collected responses from 163 participants.
We excluded participants who skipped more than one question, leaving 141 participants.
Though this exclusion makes little di erence in the results, we felt it best to only compare the ratings of people who rated a similar number of items, as ratings may change as a function of the number of items previously rated.
The distribution was rather symmetric with an average rating of 2.9 on the  ve point scale.
Since a rating of 3 corresponds to  Average for this experiment , the participants  ratings were well calibrated to our instructions.
Recall that we started with 72 ads and created static variants of each, resulting in the 144 ads in this experiment.
Figure 1 (top) shows the average rating of each ad sorted from most annoying to least annoying.
This plot shows the quite striking e ect of animation on annoyance: the 21 most annoying ads were all animated, and the 24 least annoying ads were all static.
This is further exempli ed in Figure 1 (bottom) in which each animated ad is compared to its static variant.
Here, the pairs are sorted by the annoyingness of the animated variant and the static version is placed at the same x-coordinate as its animated counterpart.
The static versions tend to fall below the animated versions, often by several standard errors or more than one rating point.
Put another way, we did not observe a case where animation sig-ni cantly improved an ad on this annoyingness scale.
Since the advertisers and products are held constant within each pair, it seems that animation alone is a cause of annoyance.
As mentioned, the 10 most and least annoying ads iden-ti ed in this experiment will serve as the sets of  bad  and  good  ads in the next experiment which is described in Section 4.
Figures 2 and 3 show examples from these two sets.
Recall that each participant who rated an ad as either  A bit more annoying than the average ad in this experiment  or  Much more annoying than the average ad in this experiment , was asked to write a few words as to why they found that ad annoying.
In all there were 1846 such responses from the 141 respondents.
First, we manually constructed a set of categories to characterize these reasons based on a
 corpus treating each response as a bag of words.
We looked at all words that occurred at least 10 times (excluding  stop words ), and assigned them to a relevant category.
Then, for each category, we totaled up the number of times the words in that category appeared in the bag.
The results are shown in Table 1.
g n i t a r s s e n g n y o n n a i n a e
 g n i t a r s s e n g n y o n n a i n a e



 Ads ranked by annoyingness
 Ad Type animated static Ad Type animated static Ad pairs ranked by annoyingness of the animated variant in each pair


 Figure 1: The top panel ranks ads by annoyingness and shows that the 21 most annoying ads were animated and the 24 least annoying ads were static.
The bottom panel ranks pairs of ads by the annoyingness of the animated variant.
The static variants tend to fall below their animated versions, suggesting that animation increases annoyingness, even when the advertiser and product are held constant.
Error bars are   1 standard error.
462(a) (a) (b) (b) Figure 2: Two examples of  bad  ads.
Figure 2(a) is a medium rectangle whereas Figure 2(b) is a skyscraper.
In the animated version of Figure 2(a) the woman s arm rapidly moves up and down.
Similarly, in Figure 2(b) the snake writhes wildly, sticks its tongue out, and pulses its eyes red.
This rudimentary text analysis shows that the most frequent topic was the animation of the ad, e.g.,  too much movement .
The next most common topic was the ad s deleterious e ect on user attention, e.g.,  it diverts my attention from what is important; the content on the page .
The third most common topic was the aesthetic of the ad, e.g.,  another cheap looking ad that I would never click.  This leads to the fourth most common complaint.
These poor aesthetics would often lead people to believe the ad is a scam, e.g.,  seems like a scam with a cheap design .
Finally, many of the ads had a graphic that did not logically relate to the product such as a dancing wizard in an ad for online classes.
This type of non sequitur also bothered users, e.g.,  A dancing wizard has nothing to do with going to school.  We list here two observations from this analysis.
First, the reasons listed above span the costs to the user, publisher and advertiser mentioned previously.
Complaints about movement or animation and how they distract from the content show there is a cost to users and publishers.
In addition, users were skeptical of aesthetically unappealing or illogical creatives, suggesting that annoying ads also have a cost for advertisers.
Second, the chief complaint was about animation, which corroborates our  nding that animation exerts a causal in uence on annoyance.
As seen in the previous section there might be a variety of attributes of an ad that a user might  nd annoying.
If we view attributes of an ad as residing in a multidimensional space, the average ratings of the previous section are how users project of that multidimensional space onto a one-dimensional annoyingness scale.
Thus, we use the method of Toomim et al. [18] along with ads from each end of this an-noyingness scale as sets of  bad  and  good ads  to measure the cost of annoying ads.
Figure 3: Two examples of  good  ads.
The participants were 1223 Mechanical Turk workers with at least a 90% approval rating who participated for a base pay of 25 cents and a bonus, which was not disclosed before the HIT was accepted to prevent selection e ects.
The experiment was advertised as an email classi cation task and ran for a period of two weeks.
Upon accepting the HIT, participants were randomly assigned to one of nine conditions: three pay conditions and three ad conditions.
The pay conditions o ered a bonus of one, two, or three cents per  ve emails classi ed (i.e., .2, .4, or .6 cents per email), and the ad conditions varied whether  bad ads ,  good ads , or no ads were displayed in the margin as the task was completed.
No mention was made of pay conditions, ad conditions or random assignment, and a search on turkerna-tion.com, a discussion forum for Mechanical Turk workers, found no mention of either experiment.
A chi-squared test found no signi cant di erence in the number of participants beginning work across the nine conditions.
In all conditions, the task consisted of classifying the content of emails as  spam ,  personal ,  work  or  e-commerce  related.
Emails were drawn from the public-domain Enron email dataset3 with one email presented per page, along with accompanying ads, if any.
In the  bad ads  condition, two ads randomly drawn from the 10 most annoying ads in our  rst experiment were displayed in the margins around the email being classi ed.
Figure 4 is a screenshot of the bad ads condition.
The  good ads  condition was the same, except the ads were drawn from the 10 least annoying ads.
In both conditions, ads were drawn randomly from their respective pools with each page load, and the urls for the ads were such that ad blocking software would not  lter them out.
The  no ads  condition simply had whitespace in the margin.
The width of the page and text area was held constant across conditions and chosen so that it would be visible to the vast majority of Web browsers.
such as email addresses, phone numbers and the name  Enron  were removed.
Impressions Good ads No ads Pay rate Good ads or no ads Model 1 Model 2    
 (0.01)  7.8e 5 (0.00)  
 (0.01)  7.8e 5 (0.00)  
 (0.01)
 (0.01)
 (0.43)  
 (0.43)
 (0.01)   Number of observations *** p <0 .05, * p < 0.01, **

 p < 0.1 Table 3: Linear regression of classi cation accuracy on impressions, ad condition, and pay rate.
Excludes participants who classi ed no emails, as their accuracy is unde ned.
Pay rate is in dollars per  ve impressions.
Standard errors are in parentheses.
the function R would be: R(A) = max
 (cid:2) i S (cid:2) i S ai   A.
ri subject to This function is poorly behaved since it has  at spots and jumps.
Moreover, the selection of ads is equivalent to the knapsack problem and thus NP-hard.
Nevertheless, since it is very unlikely that showing a single ad would maximize the revenue of the advertiser, the greedy algorithm (which displays the ads from highest to lowest by the ratio of ri/ai until the user cost approaches A) involves at worst the percentage loss in  lling A, and thus is small when A is large relative to the individual ads, as in our context.
This approximate solution has the property that R is non-decreasing and approximately concave, as assumed.
We simplify the problem by considering a di erentiable R, which may be thought of as the consequence of an in nite number of very small ads.
In our setting, the assumption of many small ads is more plausible than in many economic settings simply because ad space per user generally sells for less than a U.S. penny.
Without loss of generality we can model the publisher as selecting A and u, with v = u+A determining v. Let c(v) be the cost of content to the publisher; it is assumed increasing and convex.
Then the publisher s net pro t for a given value of u is,  (u) = max
 R(A)   c(u + A)   The  rst order condition for the optimal value A is, (cid:4)


   )   c (cid:4)   (u + A ).
The concavity of R and assumed convexity of c ensure that the function R(A)   c(u + A) is concave in A, and thus any interior solution of the  rst order conditions is a global max-imum4.
Moreover, di erentiating the  rst order conditions
 = 0 or u + readily generalizes to the border cases when A   gives,   dA du =
 (cid:4)(cid:4)   (u + A c  )   c (cid:4)(cid:4)(A (cid:4)(cid:4)(u + A )  )   ( 1, 0) The function   has the following property by the envelope theorem, (cid:4)   (u) =  c (cid:3) (cid:4)   (u + A ) < 0.
(cid:4)   Di erentiating this gives,   (u + A (u) =c   (cid:4)(cid:4) (cid:4)(cid:4) ) (cid:4) (cid:3)
 du (cid:3)
 (cid:4)(cid:4)(A
 ) (cid:4) (cid:4)(cid:4)(u + A  ) (cid:4)(cid:4)   (u + A c  )   c (cid:4)(cid:4)(A
   (cid:4)(cid:4)
 )
  )   c (cid:4)(cid:4)(u + A  ) (cid:4)(cid:4)   (u + A ) (cid:4)(cid:4)   (u + A ) =  c =  c < 0   Thus   is decreasing and concave.
Provided there is no upper bound on advertising or on content value, any u can be accommodated.
Let x(t)   [0, 1] be the publisher s market share at time t.
We will suppress the time dependence for clarity but note be a reference that x and u are both time dependent.
Let u utility level think of it as the utility o ered by imperfect substitute products.
If there is only one rival o ering a competitive product it would certainly react to changes in u.
In this case we are modeling the bene t the publisher would receive before the competitor has time to react.
If the substitute is competitively supplied, however, then we can take   as a given, since the competition has already been forced u it to its optimum value.
We suppose that the process determining consumers switching to alternative services depends on the net utility o ered, according to the logistic equation (1) This equation is commonly used in population growth because population growth depends on the existing population x (in our context, this might be the word of mouth of existing users in uencing adoption), the fraction of nonusers 1   x who can be converted, the speed   at which they con vert, and the di erence in net utility u  u .
This functional form also arises through the replicator dynamics [8].
(t) =  (u   u   )x(1   x).
x   (cid:4) Rewriting Equation 1, we can think of the publisher as (cid:4) choosing the share growth x , which dictates user utility u = u   + (cid:4) x  x(1   x) .
The publisher s  ow revenue is x (u).
Let r be the interest rate facing the publisher.
The publisher maximizes present discounted which is (cid:4) (cid:5)   (cid:3) (cid:5)    rt
 e x (u)dt = Theorem 1.
If   r     share converges to x ket share is given by (cid:4) x  rt e x    u +  x(1   x) dt.
 (u )   1, the publisher s market  (cid:2)(u ) = 0.
Otherwise, the terminal mar  x = 1 + r   (cid:4)   (u )    ) .
 (u   = 0.
Indeed, the only properties used of   are that it is
 decreasing and concave, both of which are preserved in the border cases.
466of complaints about annoying ads providing a  rst pass at identifying undesirable features.
We used the good and bad ads from this study to measure the compensating wage differential in the second study.
The main result of this paper is that annoying ads lead to site abandonment and thus fewer impressions than good ads or no ads.
In what might be seen as good news for publishers, good ads and no ads led to roughly equal numbers of impressions.
Annoying ads impaired people s ability to carry out an email classi cation task, suggesting that annoying ads have a real cost to users beyond mere annoyance.
Finally, we provided a theoretical model that computes a dynamic equilibrium, which permits studying not only properties of the steady state, but the adjustment to that state as well.
This model can be used to understand the behavior of legacy publishers, who inherited a large market share, in the face of competition from new entrants.
We calculated the compensating wage di erential in our experiment of bad ads to no ads to be $1.53 CPM, bad ads to good ads to be $1.15, and good ads to no ads to be $.38 CPM.
Some care must be taken in interpreting these numbers.
While we picked a task classifying emails that should be familiar and common for most internet users, this task may not be representative of other internet tasks like reading news stories or searching for products to purchase.
Abandonment rates may di er with di erent tasks and the e ects of advertising may vary as well.
While virtually every web service features competition, the switching costs vary from very low in consuming news to relatively high in changing email services.
Because our users on Mechanical Turk have an outside option of working on an alternative HIT, we expect our results to be most applicable to situations involving lower switching costs.
Nevertheless, we expect that our  nding that annoying ads cost the user at least $1 CPM over more pleasant ads will be obtained in some other environments.
For these reasons, we suggest further studies be done on Mechanical Turk, as  eld experiments, and in laboratories to measure this di erential on similar and di erent tasks.
If studies across various domains with a variety of tasks and outside options arrive at similar di erentials, more credence can be placed on these numbers.
We view this work as a  rst step in this direction.
If future work arrives at similar estimates across a variety of publishers, such estimates could serve as a useful lower bound for what a publisher should charge to run these ads.
Moreover, it will be valuable to use the compensating di erentials approach to price the various bad aspects of ads, including animation and poor aesthetics.
This work also suggests a variety of policy recommendations.
Most directly, the $1 CPM user cost of bad ads has practical consequences for publishers, especially as bad ads often command lower CPMs.
It is a reason that publishers should insist on a substantial premium for annoying advertisements.
Moreover, a publisher could randomize which users see which ads and track both time spent on the page and the frequency with which users return to the site.
This type of experimentation would capture longer term e ects of annoying ads than those studied here.
Also, publishers could give users an option to close or replace an ad.
A replacement event would allow the publisher to infer that a user would prefer a random ad over the ad currently shown.
Advertisers with a high closure rate should be charged more.
Furthermore, it would be reasonable to assume that more Figure 7: Phase diagram relating market share to user utility as described by Theorem 1     In addition, if x < x creasing over time.
If x > x time.
  , then user utility u > u   and is de-and is increasing over , u < u   , u The proof of this theorem is given the in Appendix.
The solution is illustrated in the phase diagram given in Figure 7.
The equilibrium for any starting market share x involves the   ).
The value of u adjusts to put path pointing toward (x the publisher on this path.
Starting with a low market share, the publisher sets a high user utility which is a combination of low advertising and high content quality, and then gradually degrades user utility and increases advertising intensity.
In contrast, a publisher who starts with a high market share will set a very low content quality and high advertising intensity, and then gradually improve the user experience.
An , the asymptotic increase in the interest rate decreases x in-market share.
An increase in the competitive level u creases x when   is log-convex and vice-versa.
      There are several conclusions one can draw from this model.
First, since the terminal market share predicted in Theorem 1 depends on  , which depends on A and u, the model justi es the ratio of the revenue to user cost as the key metric for advertising selection.
Second, in a competitive advertising market, all ads will sell for a constant times the user cost.
Annoying ads will run only when their revenue is very high or the publisher is extremely willing to sacri ce user experience for revenue.
Third, a legacy publisher, whose market share is large because they initially faced little competition, will start with a lower user experience involving both more ads and worse content than an entrant.
This will result in the legacy publisher seeing a fast decline in user base.
The legacy publishers content will gradually improve until a stable point is reached.
Finally, if consumers react su ciently slowly to changes in content (that is,   is small), a legacy publisher will gradually go extinct rather than o er a better user experience.
The  rst study reported here showed that people  nd animated advertisements more annoying than static ones, holding all else constant.
This study also identi ed  ve categories 467annoying ads would be closed or replaced faster than less annoying ads.
Ad replacement would help the user by removing the annoying ad and the publisher by making it possible to charge for two impressions.
We thank Randall A. Lewis, Justin M. Rao, and David H.
Reiley for helpful conversations.
In this section we give the proof of Theorem 1.
(cid:6) (cid:7) (cid:4) x 1 x Proof.
De ne y = log x(cid:2) .
Note, y
 1 x = x(1 x) , and x = ey 1 x =

 dt.
problem as that of maximizing 1+ey     , t) = e .
The Euler equation Let F (y, y u for this problem is x + x(cid:2) = x(cid:2) y = 1 + x (cid:9) (cid:4)(cid:10) 0 e + 1   y (cid:8)   + 1   y  rt ey  rt ey 1+ey   (cid:4)(cid:10) (cid:9) u   (cid:4) (cid:4) (cid:4)

  y  rt = e   d dt e
 (cid:4)  y y (cid:3) (cid:4)   + (cid:3)
     (cid:4) y e y u  rt (1 + ey)2     1 d e + u   dt  rt[ (1   x)  (u) +r  (cid:4) )(1   x)     (u)  (u   u  
   (u) 1 +e y     y e (cid:4) (cid:4) = x   (cid:4)(cid:4) (u) u (cid:4) ] Thus, (cid:4)(cid:4) (cid:4) (u)u (cid:4) =  (1   x) (u) +r  and 0 =  (1  x (u)    (u   u   A steady state of the system holds when x u = u to   ) (u ) + r  )(1   x)  = u (u).
= 0, or ).
This is equivalent (u         (cid:4) (cid:4) (cid:4) (cid:4) 1   x   =   r   (cid:4)   (u )    ) .
 (u   If   r  (cid:2)(u )  (u )   1, all optimal paths involve x   0 as there  (cid:2)(u )  (u ) < 1, there is = 0 curve occurs when )(1   x)  (u) .
Thus, is no internal steady state.
When   r an interior steady state.
The u (u)    (u   u 0 =  (1   x)  (u) + r    near (x , u ),       (cid:4) (cid:4) (cid:4) u(cid:2)=0 = =  (u) (u u ) (cid:2)(u)  (1 x) (cid:2)(u)+r (cid:2)(cid:2)(u) (1 x) (cid:2)(u) (u u )(1 x) (cid:2)(cid:2)(cid:2)(u) +r (cid:2)(cid:2)(u) (u u )(1 x) (cid:2)(cid:2)(cid:2)(u)    (u )  (u) (u u ) (cid:2)(u) r (cid:2)(cid:2)(u ) < 0.
(cid:11)(cid:11) du dx We can obtain insight about the paths near this solution by a  rst order Taylor approximation.
The strategy looks like this.
Write  (1   x)  (u)  (cid:2)(cid:2)(u) + r )x(1   x)  (u   u    (cid:2)(cid:2)(u)    (u   u  (cid:2)(u)   )(1   x)  (cid:2)(u)  (cid:2)(cid:2)(u) (cid:13) (cid:11)(cid:11)
 t

 (cid:12) (cid:3) (cid:12) (cid:4) = (cid:4) =   (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:4) x (cid:4) u (cid:4) x (cid:4) u (cid:4) .
g(x, u) h(x, u)  g/ x  h/ x  g/ u  h/ u (cid:13)(cid:11)(cid:11)(cid:11)(cid:11)(cid:11) (x,u)=(x ,u ) (cid:3) (cid:4) .
x   x   u   u   Thus, it pays to increase a convergent x if and only if x < 1   (cid:2)(u )  (u ) , implying that this is only candidate for convergent paths when   r  (cid:2)(u )  (u ) < 1.
r     Locally the behavior of the general system is approximated by the behavior of the linear system.
The only challenging term in the matrix is (cid:11)(cid:11)(cid:11)(cid:11)  h  u u=u ,x=x   (1   x)   (u) (cid:4)(cid:4) (u)   =    u  (u   u (cid:3) =  (1   x 1     +r   = r (cid:4) (u) (cid:11)(cid:11)(cid:11)(cid:11)   + r (cid:4)(cid:4) (u)     (cid:4) )(1   x)   (u) (cid:4)(cid:4) (u)   (cid:4)(cid:4)(cid:4)     )   (u ) (u )   (cid:4)  )2 (cid:4)(cid:4) (u   (cid:4)   (cid:4)(cid:4)(cid:4)   )   (u  )2 (cid:4)(cid:4) (u (cid:4)(cid:3) (u   )
  (u)  (cid:2)(cid:2)(u)    x   ) (1   x r u=u ,x=x  (cid:4) x   x   u   u   (cid:4) Thus,(cid:3) (cid:4) (cid:3)   (cid:4) (cid:4) x u   (cid:3) The eigenvalues of the linear system are determined by solutions   to 0 = det    (u)  (cid:2)(cid:2)(u)    x   ) (1   x   r     solving for   gives,   = r   r2   4 2x  (1   x 2   r  +   (cid:14) 0 =  (cid:12)  

 (cid:4)(cid:4)
   (1   x   x   )   (u )  ) (cid:4)(cid:4) (u   (cid:13)  )  )   (u  ) (cid:4)(cid:4) (u     (u Because   ) < 0, there is one positive and one negative eigenvalue and both are real.
Thus, the behavior of the system is a saddle, as illustrated in Figure 7.
There are in nitely many paths consistent with equilibrium given by the di erential equations.
Which one is the right one?
In  (cid:2)(u )  (u )   1, all paths that don t violate the case when   r transversality lead to x = 0.
Suppose x is a candidate limit.
