The rise of social media services enables a global-scale infrastructure for the sharing of videos, blogs, images, tweets, and other user-generated content.
As users consume and share this content, some content may gain traction and become popular resulting in viral videos and popular memes that captivate the attention of huge numbers of users.
These phenomena have attracted a considerable amount of recent research to study the dynamics of the adoption of social media, e.g., [4, 13, 15, 17, 20].
Augmenting this rich body of research is the widespread adoption of GPS-enabled tagging of social media content via smartphones and social media services, which provides new Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Committee (IW3C2).
IW3C2 reserves the right to provide a hyperlink to the author s site if the Material is used in electronic media.
access to the  ne-grained spatio-temporal logs of user activities.
For example, the Foursquare location sharing service has enabled 2 billion  check-ins  [12], whereby users can link their presence, notes, and photographs to a particular venue.
The mobile image sharing service Instagram allows users to selectively attach their latitude-longitude coordinates to each photograph; similar geo-tagged image sharing services are provided by Flickr and a host of other services.
And the popular Twitter service sees  300 million Tweets per day, of which  3 million are tagged with latitude-longitude coordinates.
Access to these geo-spatial footprints opens new opportunities to investigate the spatio-temporal dynamics of online memes, which has important implications for a variety of systems and applications, including targeted advertising, location-based services, social media search, and content delivery networks.
Hence, in this paper, we initiate a study of the spatio-temporal properties of social media spread through an examination of the  ne-grained sharing of one type of global-scale social media   a sample of 2 billion geo-tagged Tweets with precise latitude-longitude coordinates collected over the course of 18 months.
Speci cally we consider the propagation of hashtags across Twitter, where a hashtag is a simple user-generated annotation pre xed with a #.
Hashtags serve many purposes on Twitter, from associating Tweets with particular events (e.g., #ripstevejobs and #fukushima) to sharing memes and conversations (e.g., #bestsportsrivalry and #ifyouknowmeyouknow).
Our goal is to explore questions such as:   What role does distance play in the adoption of hashtags?
Does distance between two locations in uence both what users in di erent locations adopt and when they do so?
  While social media is widely reported in terms of viral and global phenomenon, to what degree are hashtags truly a global phenomenon?
  What are the geo-spatial properties of hashtag spread?
How do local and global hashtags di er?
  How fast do hashtags peak after being introduced?
And what are the geo-spatial factors impacting the timing of this peak?
  How can the spatio-temporal characteristics of hashtags describe locations?
Are some locations more  im-pactful  in terms of the hashtags that originate there?
an inherent sample bias towards using who are willing to share their precise location, the investigation of these questions can provide new insights toward understanding the spatio-temporal dynamics of the sharing of user-generated content.
Our investigation is structured in three steps.
First, we study the global footprint of hashtags and explore the spatial constraints on hashtag adoption.
In particular, we analyze the worldwide distribution of hashtags and the impact distance has on where and when hashtags will be adopted.
Second, we study three spatial properties of hashtag propagation   focus, entropy, and spread   and examine the spatial propagation of hashtags using these properties.
Speci cally, we study the nature (local or global) of hashtag propagation and the correlation between the spatial properties and the number of occurrences of the hashtags.
Finally, we present two methods for characterizing locations based on hashtag spatial analytics.
The  rst method uses spatial properties   entropy and focus   to determine the nature of a location from the point of hashtag propagation, while the second method uses hashtag adoption times to characterize a location s impact to enable hashtag propagation.
Some of our key  ndings are:   Hashtags are a global phenomenon, with locations all across the world.
But the physical distance between locations is a strong constraint on the adoption of hashtags, both in terms of the hashtags shared between locations and in the timing of when these hashtags are adopted.
  Hashtags are essentially a local phenomenon with long-tailed life spans, but follow a  spray-and-di use  pattern, similar to Youtube videos [5], where initially a small number of locations  champion  a hashtag, make it popular, and the spread it to other locations.
After this initial spread, hashtag popularity drops and only locations that championed it originally continue to post it.
  The rate at which a hashtag becomes popular is dependent on the hashtag s origin.
That is, hashtags that originate as responses to external stimuli (like real-world events) spread faster than hashtags that originate purely within the Twitter network itself (e.g., corresponding to a Twitter meme like #ifyouknowmey-ouknow).
  Through hashtag spatial analytics, the relative impact of locations can be measured; for example while both London and Sao Paulo are home to the most total hashtags, hashtags originating in London have a global footprint, while Sao Paulo s are mostly constrained to Brazil due to inherent language and culture constraints.
These results can positively impact both research into the spread of online memes as well as systems operators, e.g., informing the design of distributed content delivery networks and search infrastructure for real-time Twitter-like content.
For example, caching decisions to improve fast delivery of social media content to users and to support applications like real-time search can build upon the results presented here.
Insights into the role distance plays and the impact locations have on hashtag spread could inform new algorithms for geo-targeted advertising.
This work can also complement e orts to model network structures that support (or impede) the  viralness  of social media, measure the contagion factors that impact how users in uence their neighbors, develop models of future social media adoption, and so forth.
Our work presented here builds on two lines of research: studies of Twitter and of Twitter hashtags; and geo-spatial analysis of social media.
Twitter Hashtag Analysis: There have been several papers studying the general properties of Twitter as a social network and in analyzing information di usion over this network [13, 15, 23, 16].
Continuing in this direction most papers related to hashtags have focused their attention on understanding the propagation of hashtags on the network.
For example, in [20] the authors studied factors for hashtag di usion and found that repeated exposure to a hashtag increased the chance of it being reposted again, especially if the hashtag is contentious.
An approach grounded in linguistic principles has studied the properties of hashtag creation, use, and dissemination in [8].
In related research, approaches based on linear regression have been used to predict the popularity of hashtags in a given time frame [22].
Because of the variety of ways in which hashtags s are used to convey information about a tweet, there has been recent research in hashtag-based sentiment detection [10], topic tracking on twitter streams [18], and so forth.
Geo-spatial Analysis of Social Media: The emergence of location-based social networks like Foursquare, Gowalla, and Google Latitude has motivated large-scale geo-spatial analysis [14, 21, 19, 7].
Some of the earliest research related to geo-spatial analysis of web content were based on mining geography speci c content for search engines [11].
More recently in [2] the authors analyzed search queries to understand the spatial distribution of queries and understand their geographical centers.
On Twitter, geo-spatial analysis has focused on inferring geographic information from tweets like predicting user locations from tweets [6] and spatial modeling to geolocate objects [9].
Similar analysis to infer a user s location on Facebook based on their social network has been studied in [3].
Researchers have also analyzed Youtube videos for geo-spatial properties and observed the highly-local nature of video views [5].
We collected a sample of 2 billion geo-tagged tweets containing 342 million hashtags (27 million unique hashtags) from Twitter using the Twitter Streaming API from February 1, 2011 to October 31, 2012.
Each tweet in this sample is tagged with a latitude and longitude indicating the location of the user at the time of the posting, resulting in a tuple of the form < hashtag, time, latitude, longitude >.
The expected long tail distribution for hashtag occurrences is shown in Figure 1(a).
To support location-based analysis, we divide the globe into square grids of equal area using Universal Transverse Mercator (UTM), a geographic coordinate system which uses a 2-dimensional Cartesian coordinate system to map locations on the surface of the globe [1].
The issue with using an angular coordinate system like latitudes and longitudes
 (b) Location distribution Figure 1: Hashtag dataset properties is that distance covered by a degree of longitude di ers as we move towards the pole.
In addition, the distance covered by moving a degree in latitude and longitude is same only at the equator.
Hence, it is hard to break globe into grids using this system.
UTM on the other hand gives us a system of grids that closely matches distances in metric system making our analysis easier.
While varying the choice of grid size can allow analysis at multiple levels (e.g., from state-sized cells to neighborhood-sized ones), we adopt a middle ground by dividing the globe into squares of 10km by 10km.
Some grid cells will naturally be densely populated, others will be sparse.
Let this set of distinct locations, each corresponding to a square, be represented by the set L. With these locations, we observe in Figure 1(b) that the number of hashtags present in a location follows a long tail distribution (e.g., 10,000 unique hashtags are observed in 10 locations; 100 unique hashtags are observed in 100 locations), following the expected population density of equal-sized grid cells.
For the rest of the paper, we focus on hashtags with at least 5 occurrences in a location and with at least 50 total occurrences across all locations.
Since some hashtags may have begun their Twitter life before the  rst day of our sample while others may have continued on after the last day, we consider both February 2011 and October 2012 as bu er months.
Hence, we capture the full lifecycle of hashtags starting on or after March 1, 2011 and ending by September 30, 2012 which focuses our study to hashtags which have both their birth and death within the time of study.
The rest of this paper considers a set of hashtags H (consisting of close to 20 million hashtags from 99,015 unique hashtags) and a set of locations L (consisting of 4,946 locations).
For every hashtag (h   H) and location (l   L) pair, we denote the set of all occurrences of h in l as Oh l .
We say that Hl is the set of unique hashtags observed in l.
Our study continues in three major parts:   First, we study the global footprint of hashtags and explore the spatial constraints on hashtag adoption.
(  4)   Second, we study three spatial properties of hashtag propagation   focus, entropy, and spread   and examine the spatial propagation of hashtags using these properties.
(  5)   Finally, we illustrate two potential methods for characterizing locations based on hashtag spatial analytics.
(  6) Figure 2: Fraction of hashtag occurrences in locations ordered by their rank.
The inset plot shows the fraction for top-200 locations.
Figure 3: Top-5 locations with most hashtags

 In this section, we begin our analysis by examining the locations represented in the dataset and exploring the relationship between locations.
In particular, we are interested in understanding: (i) what is the worldwide distribution of hashtags?
(ii) does distance between two locations in uence which hashtags they adopt?
and (iii) does distance between two locations in uence when they will adopt these hashtags?
We  rst examine the distribution of hashtags across the 4, 946 unique locations represented in the dataset, as shown in Figure 2.
The distribution of hashtags occurring in locations ordered by their rank (in terms of number of occurrences) decreases exponentially with increasing rank, meaning that the distribution of hashtags in various locations is very uneven.
But, focusing on just the top-200 locations (as shown in the inset plot in Figure 2), we see that though the decrease in occurrence is exponential, it is small compared to the drop that we see for all locations in the larger  gure, indicating the presence of locations which generate high but relatively the same number of hashtags.
The top-5 locations by their rank are shown in Figure 3.
While Sao Paulo claims close to 3.4% of all hashtags and no US city occurs in the top-3 positions, when aggregating locations by country we observe that the US has close to a
 Although the US dominates, if we extend to the top-200 most prevalent locations, we see in Figure 4 the global footprint of hashtags covering most of the major densely populated cities in the world (sans China).
Figure 5: Hashtag sharing similarity vs Distance.
Given the global nature of hashtags, we next examine the relationship between locations in terms of hashtag adoption.
We consider two approaches that consider the distance between location pairs   one based on the fraction of hashtags shared between locations; the other based on the adoption time lag between locations.
In both cases we measure the distance between locations using the Haversine distance function, which accounts for the e ects of the Earth s spherical shape in  nding distances between points.1 In essence, the Haversine maps from latitude-longitude pairs to distance: D : R2   R2   R.
Hashtag Sharing vs Distance: We  rst seek to understand the relationship of the distance between locations on the commonality of hashtags adopted in locations.
To what degree does distance impact whether a hashtag is shared between two locations?
Given two locations, we measure their hashtag  similarity  using the Jaccard coe cient between the sets of hashtags observed at each location: Hashtag Similarity(li, lj) = Hli   Hlj Hli   Hlj where recall Hl is the set of unique hashtags observed in l.
Locations that have all hashtags in common have a similarity score of 1.0, while those that share no hashtags have a score of 0.0.
The relationship between hashtag similarity and distance is plotted in Figure 5.
We see a strong correlation, suggesting that the closer two locations are, the more likely they are to adopt the same hashtags.
As distance increases, the hashtag sharing similarity drops accordingly.
Much of this distance-based correlation can be explained by issues of language, culture and other common interests shared between these locations.
For example, we see strong similarities in hashtags between English-speaking parts of Western Europe and the United States; and between Portuguese-speaking parts of Brazil and Portugal.
Hashtag Adoption Lag vs Distance: While locations that are near are more likely to share hashtags, are they also more likely to adopt hashtags at the same time?
We next measure the impact of distance on hashtag adoption lag between two locations.
Locations that adopt a common hashtag at the same time can be considered as more temporally similar than are two locations that are farther apart in time (with a greater lag).
Letting th l be the  rst time when hashtag h was observed in location l, we can de ne
 For a fuller treatment, we refer the interested reader to http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Haversine formula Figure 6: Hashtag adoption lag vs Distance the hashtag adoption lag of two locations as: Adoption Lag(li, lj) =
 |Hli   Hlj | X h Hli  Hlj li   th |th lj | where the adoption lag measures the mean temporal lag between two locations for hashtags that occur in both the locations.
A lower value indicates that common hashtags reach both the locations around the same time.
We see in Figure 6 a relatively  at relationship up to  500 miles, then a generally positive correlation, suggesting that locations that are close in spatial distance tend also to be close in time (e.g., they adopt hashtags at approximately the same time).
Locations that are more spatially distant tend to adopt hashtags at greater lags with respect to each other.
Our observations in this section indicate that hashtags are fundamentally a global phenomenon, with locations all across the world participating in the sharing of this type of social media.
However, we have also con rmed that the physical distance between locations is a strong constraint on the adoption of hashtags, both in terms of the hashtags shared between locations and in the timing of when these hashtags are adopted.
Based on the observations in the previous section, we now focus on the characteristics of hashtag propagations across the globe.
We examine the spatio-temporal properties of individual hashtags to explore questions like: To what degree are hashtags a local phenomenon?
Does the number of occurrences of hashtag impact its global spread?
Can we 670characterize the spatial properties of local and global hash tags?
Previous studies of the geographic scope of social media and web resources have typically adopted two types of measures: one considering the intensity of focus and one considering the uniformity of this interest.
Similarly, we adopt two measures (similar to ones for studying YouTube videos in [5]): hashtag focus and hashtag entropy, plus a third measure called the hashtag spread.
For every hashtag (h   H) and location (l   L) pair, if we let Oh l be the set of all occurrences of h in l, then the probability of observing hashtag h in location l is de ned as: (a) CDF (b) Mean hashtag focus Figure 7: Focus: Around 50% of hashtags accumulate at least 50% of their postings from a single location.
P h l = Then the hashtag focus for hashtag h is: Oh l Pl L{Oh l } F h = max l L P h l which is simply the maximum probability of observing the hashtag at a single location.
The location at which the probability is maximum is called the hashtag focus location.
As a hashtag propagates, intuitively its focus will reduce as the hashtag is observed at multiple locations.
The more local a hashtag is, presumably the higher its focus will be as well.
Note that we additionally denote the focus measured over an interval t (rather than over the entire dataset) as F h(t).
The hashtag entropy is de ned as: E h =  X l L P h l log2 P h l which measures the randomness in spatial distribution of a hashtag and determines the minimum number of bits required to represent the spread.
A hashtag that occurs in only a single location will have an entropy of 0.0.
As a hashtag spreads to more locations, its entropy will increase, re ecting the greater randomness in the distribution.
Like focus, we can additionally denote the entropy measured over an interval t (rather than over the entire dataset) as E h(t).
While focus and entropy provide insights into a hashtag s locality, they lack explicit consideration for the distance a hashtag has traveled.
For example, consider two hashtags   one distributed equally between Austin and Dallas, and another one equally distributed between Los Angeles and New York.
The focus of both hashtags is 0.5 and their entropy is
 hashtag, we de ne the hashtag spread of hashtag h as: S h =
 |Oh| X o Oh D(o, G(Oh)) which measures the mean distance for all occurrences of a hashtag from its geographic midpoint.
Here, G is the geographic midpoint2 for a set of occurrences, which is similar to calculating the midpoint on a plane for a set of 2-dimensional points, but as in the case of Haversine distance, the geographic midpoint is calculated by considering the effects of Earth s spherical shape.
A local hashtag with many occurrences close to its midpoint will yield a small spread, while a global hashtag with occurrences relatively far from its center will yield a larger spread.
http://www.geomidpoint.com/ (a) CDF (b) Mean hashtag entropies Figure 8: Entropy: Almost 20% of hashtags are con ned to a single location, but hashtags begin to spread as they become popular.
tropy, and Spread Using these three spatial properties, we now analyze the properties of hashtag propagations.
Measuring Hashtag Focus: We begin by considering the focus values of hashtags.
The cumulative distribution for focus values of hashtags is shown in Figure 7(a).
We observe that the distribution is nearly linear, meaning that the focus values for hashtags are uniformly distributed.
We also notice that most hashtags are concentrated in one location.
Speci cally, around 50% of hashtags derive at least 50% of their postings from a single location.
In addition, as indicated by the single dot at CDF = 1.0, about a quarter of all hashtags are observed in a single location only.
Continuing this look at hashtag focus, we next plot the relationship between the number of occurrences of a hashtag and its focus in Figure 7(b).
As can be expected, we observe that hashtags with a few occurrences have a high focus (meaning that these low-intensity hashtags tend to occur primarily in a single location), whereas an increasing number of occurrences corresponds to a decrease in the focus of the hashtag.
Together, these results suggest that many hashtags correspond to either local events (e.g., #momentoschampi-ons, #nyadaauditions) or geographically compact networks of friends.
But as hashtags become more popular they tend to spread to more locations.
That is, it is unlikely for a popular hashtag to be constrained to a handful of locations; there is spillover from one location to the next.
Measuring Hashtag Entropy: To further explore this spatial distribution, we next consider the entropy of hashtag propagations.
Recall that an entropy of zero for a hashtag indicates that it was posted from one (20) location only, while, for example, an entropy value of two indicates a hash-
(b) Mean hashtag spread Figure 9: Spread: 50% of hashtags have a spread less than 400 miles; 25% of hashtags have a spread greater than 1000 miles.
tag propagated almost equally to four (22) locations.
The cumulative distribution of entropy in Figure 8(a) shows that about 25% of hashtags are concentrated in a single location and that the majority of hashtags propagate to at most two locations.
On the  ipside, however, we do see that hashtags with many occurrences tend to spread to many locations, as seen by the increasing entropy versus the number of hashtag occurrences in Figure 8(b) (and the decreasing focus values, as we observed in Figure 7(b)).
As a hashtag becomes popular it tends to spread to newer locations and this in turn makes it more popular.
These results show that the majority of hashtags have a narrow base of geographic support, but that one of the keys to popularity is a broad geographic footprint.
This is intuitively sensible, but important to con rm in practice.
Measuring Hashtag Spread: While focus and entropy provide insights into a hashtag s locality, neither directly measures the geographic area over which a hashtag propagates.
Using hashtag spread, we see in Figure 9(a) that about a quarter of hashtags have a spread of zero since they were observed in only location.
In addition, we observe that most hashtags have a small spread, with almost 50% of hashtags having a spread less than 400 miles.
However, we do observe that around 25% of hashtags have a spread greater than 1000 miles.
We next plot the correlation between number of occurrences of a hashtag and its spread in Figure 9(b).
Consistent with the  ndings over focus and entropy we observe that an increasing number of occurrences is coupled with a larger spatial footprint.
Direct Comparison of Spatial Properties: We now turn to directly comparing the focus, entropy, and spread values for our hashtags.
We begin by plotting the mean hashtag focus on the x-axis versus the mean hashtag entropy on the y-axis, as shown in Figure 10.
Local hashtags   with a high focus and a low entropy   are located in the bottom-right of the  gure; global hashtags   with a low focus and a high entropy   are located in the top-left of the  gure.
The correlation between spread and our two other spatial properties   focus and entropy   is shown in Figure 11.
As expected, an increasing spread results in a decreasing focus because as a hashtag spreads it occurs in more locations which in turn reduces the overall focus.
For similar reasons we observe an increase in entropy with increasing spread.
We also observe that in Figure 11(a), there is a steep drop in focus for the  rst 700 miles, followed by a region of almost uniform focus until about 1600 miles and  nally a region of Figure 10: Entropy versus Focus.
(a) Focus vs Spread.
(b) Entropy vs Spread.
Figure 11: Correlation between spatial properties and spread.
decreasing focus until 4000 miles.
The initial steep drop of focus indicates that the locations that are adopting hashtags are spatially close to each other.
On a map, the spatial distribution of these hashtags would look like a tight cluster of dots in a small region.
The next region where the focus remains almost the same while the spread increases corresponds to hashtags that are spatially well distributed but the majority of hashtags are being produced by a single location.
On a map the spatial distribution for these hashtags would have dots spread over a wide region as in Figure 12(a), but with only a few of those dots generating the majority of hashtags.
Finally, the third region corresponds to globally distributed hashtags like the one shown in Figure 12(b).
We see similar behavior when we plot entropy against spread as shown in Figure 11(b): a steep increase in entropy for the  rst 700 miles, then a region until about 1600 miles with uniform entropy and  nally a region of increasing entropy until 4000 miles.
In summary, most hashtags are essentially a local phenomenon, as indicated by the on-average high focus, low entropy, and small spread.
But as a hashtag becomes more popular, we see a decrease in focus and an increase in entropy and spread, all hallmarks of global impact.
Based on the analysis in this section, we identify three broad categories of hashtags:   Local Interest [60% of all hashtags]: These hashtags have a spread range from 0 to 700 miles.
They have a high focus with median of 0.79 and low entropy of 1 bit.
Example local interest hashtags include #volunteer4betterindia, #ramadanmovies, and #once-uponatimeinnigeria.
  Regional and Event-Driven [15% of all hashtags]: These hashtags have a spread range from 700 to 1000 miles.
They have a median focus of 0.44 and 672(a) #cnndebate (b) #ripstevejobs Figure 12: Example of hashtag spread.
Figure 14: CDF of occurrences with time.
(a) Distribution of hashtag peaks.
(b) CDF for hashtag peaks.
Figure 13: Hashtag peak analysis.
(a) Hashtags that peak during the  rst 30 minutes.
(b) Hashtags that peak between 4 and 10 hours entropy of 3 bits.
Example regional and event-driven hashtags include#cnbcdebate, #iowadebate, etc.
  Worldwide Phenomena [25% of all hashtags]: These hashtags have a spread range from 1000 to 4000 miles.
These are mostly global hashtags which have low focus with median of 0.28 and entropy of 4 bits.
Example worldwide phenomena hashtags include #brit-neyvmas, #yearof4, #timessquareball.
We next augment our analysis by considering, in addition to the spatial propagation of hashtags, the temporal characteristics of these hashtags.
We begin this temporal analysis by studying when hashtags reach the peak of their propagation in terms of occurrences.
For this study we focus on hashtags that reach their peak within the  rst two days after their  rst appearance.
We see in Figure 13(a) the distribution of peak times across all hashtags.
We  nd that around 20% of hashtags reach their peak within 20 minutes of their  rst appearance.
The distribution of peaks falls exponentially after that.
We also observe that about 60% of all hashtags reach their peak within the  rst 2 hours as shown in Figure 13(b).
In addition we observe that on average hashtags accumulate more than 50% of their total occurrences in the  rst 2 hours of their propagation as shown in Figure 14.
But what are the di erences between fast-peaking hashtags and slow-peaking ones?
Do hashtags behave di erently in terms of their spatial properties?
To answer these questions, we consider two sets of hashtags   those that reach their peak within the  rst 30 minutes of their initial appearance and a second set consisting of slower hashtags that reach their peak between 4 and 10 hours of their initial appearance.
To analyze the relationship between locality and peak times we plotted these sets of hashtags in Figure 15, with focus on the x-axis and entropy on the y-axis.
We observe that in the set of faster hashtags   which reach a peak within 30 minutes of their propagation   the local hashtags are much faster than the global ones (see Figure 15(a)).
This observation is reversed in the set of Figure 15: (Color) Comparing the spatial properties of hashtags that reach their peak quickly (a) and those that reach their peak more slowly (b).
Local hashtags   with a high focus and a low entropy   are located in the bottom-right of each  gure; global hashtags   with a low focus and a high entropy   are located in the top-left of each  gure.
Low peak values are in light blue; high peak values in magenta.
slower hashtags, shown in Figure 15(b), where the global hashtags are relatively faster than the local hashtags.
On closer inspection, we attribute this reversal to the motive or purpose of the hashtags.
First, we observe that hashtags that peak slowly are mostly of anticipated events, like the hashtag  #mtvema  corresponding to the MTV music awards, while the hashtags that peak more quickly are those that are organically generated within Twitter and related to fun like  #childhoodmemories .
Second, slower hashtags are not as dependent on social sharing within Twitter as compared to faster hashtags; for example, users may be aware about the MTV awards from multiple sources (TV, news, friends), while the hashtag  #childhoodmemories  is seen only by those on Twitter.
This dependency on the network to spread makes local fast hashtags peak sooner than the global fast hashtags.
The global slow hashtags peak sooner than the local slow hashtags since more people are aware about them and they are not dependent on the network.
Based on this peak analysis, we group hashtags into three categories:   Fast [25% of all hashtags]: These hashtags reach their peak within 30 minutes of their  rst appearance.
We  nd that 65% of these hashtags are local, 15% of these hashtags are national or event driven and 20% are global.
  Medium [20% of all hashtags]: These hashtags reach their peak between 30 minutes and 10 hours after their  rst appearance.
We  nd that 55% of these
 time.
entropy with Figure 16: Hashtags peak with their most  global  footprint 10-20 minutes after their peak hashtags are local, 17% of these hashtags are national or event driven and 28% are global.
  Slow [55% of all hashtags]: These hashtags reach their peak more than 10 hours after their  rst appearance.
We  nd that 60% of these hashtags are local, 16% of these hashtags are national or event driven and 24% are global.
For all three peak-based categories we observe that the distribution of spatial categories is quite similar.
We next zoom in on the spatial properties of hashtag propagation during the minutes pre- and post peak.
When hashtags peak, do they peak suddenly in di erent locations simultaneously or do they slowly accumulate a larger spatial footprint?
What are the dynamics of their spatial properties as they become popular?
For this study, we divide each hashtag s lifecycle into equal length time intervals of 10 minutes.
For each time interval, we compute the hashtag focus (F h(t)) and the hashtag entropy (E h(t)) over just that interval.
We plot these interval-speci c focus and entropy measures in Figure 16.
First, compared to the aggregate characteristics across all hashtags   in which we  nd the median focus for all hashtags over their entire lifetime to be 0.57; for entropy, we  nd a median of 2 bits   here we see that the interval-based focus is even higher (greater than 0.80 in all cases) and the interval-based entropy is even lower (less than 1 bit in all cases).
These higher focus / lower entropy results indicate that hashtags are even more local during each step of their propagation.
To illustrate, in the aggregate we may  nd a hashtag that propagates only in locations in Texas.
Compared to a global hashtag, it is certainly more local and its focus and entropy will re ect this.
However, during its propagation, the Texas-based hashtag is even more local at each step; that is, it does not propagate over the entire state simultaneously but in stages, city by city.
It might  rst become popular in Dallas, then in Austin, and so on.
Returning to Figure 16(a) and Figure 16(b), we observe that hashtags reach their lowest interval focus and highest interval entropy about 10-20 minutes after their peak.
Rather than peaking with their most  global  footprint, hashtags instead reach this state after their peak.
This result   that a peaking hashtag is actually more local than it ultimately will be   is seemingly counterintuitive.
However, recall that in our in our examination of the cumulative distribution of focus shown in Figure 7(a), we noted that almost 50% of hashtags accumulate more than 50% of their occurrences from a single location.
With this in mind, we  nd that hashtags receive most of their occurrences from this single location during their peak explaining the spike in interval focus and the fall in interval entropy.
In e ect, this single location is  championing  a hashtag.
In the 10-20 minutes after this peak period, other locations adopt the hashtag, resulting in a decrease in interval focus and an increase in entropy as the hashtags becomes more global.
About 30 minutes after reaching peak, focus and entropy reverse, with focus increasing and entropy decreasing as the hashtag withdraws back to its original focus location.
In essence, hashtags are spread via a single location  championing  a hashtag initially, spreading it to other locations and then continuing to propagate it after it has become popular.
In [5], the authors observed a similar pattern for YouTube videos which they called the  spray-and-di use  pattern.
Our observations over hashtags suggest that this pattern may be a fundamental property of social media spread.
Finally, we turn our sights towards leveraging the spatio-temporal propagation of hashtags to characterize locations.
Are some locations more  impactful  in terms of the hashtags that originate there, and other locations more  impressionable  in terms of hashtags they propagate?
Concretely, we illustrate two techniques for characterizing locations based on hashtag spatial analytics: (i) location-based entropy-focus-spread plots; and (ii) a method for evaluating the spatial impact of locations.
In the  rst technique, we  rst assign every hashtag to its corresponding hashtag focus location.
This results in every location having a set of hashtags that were focused there.
Using this set of hashtags we plot the entropy versus focus for every hashtag focused on this location plus indicate the mean spread for every focus-entropy pair using a color gradient.
To illustrate, consider the four location-based entropy-focus-spread plots in Figure 17   one for London, Sao Paulo, Ankara, and Los Angeles.
Recall that London, Sao Paulo, and Los Angeles are among the top-5 locations in terms of total hashtags, while Ankara ranks much lower.
First, we observe that locations that have high hashtag counts have a complete spectrum of hashtags on the plots.
Recall that local hashtags occur on the right-bottom of such plots, while global hashtags are on the left-top.
Here we see that the popular locations are the focal points (or  champions ) for both local and global hashtags.
Ankara, on the other hand, is the focal point for only relatively local hashtags (with high focus and low entropy).
Second, the use of spread (with high values in a lighter yellow, while lower values of spread are in red) illustrates the relative geo-spatial footprint of hashtags that have a location as its focal point.
For example, although Sao Paulo has a high total number of hashtags and a high number of total locations impacted (note the hashtags with low focus and high entropy), the geospatial footprint of Sao Paulo is relatively low (note the very little yellow among these hashtags).
The hashtags popular in Sao Paulo have high entropy because they are spread over several locations but all these locations are close to each other resulting in a smaller spread.
Los Angeles on the other hand has a global impact; hashtags
 (b) Sao Paulo (c) Ankara (d) Los Angeles Figure 17: (Color) Entropy-Focus-Spread plots for four cities.
Local hashtags   with a high focus and a low entropy   are located in the bottom-right of each  gure; global hashtags   with a low focus and a high entropy   are located in the top-left of each  gure.
The mean spread for every focus-entropy pair using a color gradient: high values in a lighter yellow, while lower values of spread are in red.
Figure 18: Example of hashtag adoption for two locations l1 and l2.
In (a) l1 adopts all of its hashtags before l2.
In (b) l1 adopts all of its hashtags after l2.
In (c) l1 and l2 adopt hashtags simultaneously.
where, I h li lj is de ned as: that become popular in Los Angeles tend to be popular in a larger geographical area.
I h li lj =  Oh lj |Oh li | |Oh li  Oh | lj  Oh lj |Oh li
  1 | if h   Hli and h   Hlj if h   Hli only if h   Hlj only    
 The second spatial analytics technique directly evaluates the impact a location has on other locations by measuring the hashtag-based spatial impact.
We de ne the spatial impact Ili lj of location li on lj as a score in the range [ 1, 1], such that  1 indicates li adopts a hashtag only after lj has adopted it, +1 indicates lj adopts a hashtag only after li adopts it and 0 indicates the locations are independent of each other and adopt hashtags simultaneously.
For example, consider the three cases shown in Figure 18.
When hashtags are generated between a pair of locations as shown in (a) we want Il1 l2 = 1, when as shown in (b) we want Il1 l2 =  1, and when as shown in (c) we want Il1 l2 = 0.
Let oh l (t) represent an occurrence of hashtag h in location l at time interval t. Then, we de ne the preceding operator   over two sets of occurrences Oh li and Oh lj as: Oh li   Oh lj = {oh li (t) | ti < tj   (oh li (t1), oh lj (t2))   Oh li   Oh lj } which gives a set of all occurrences of h in l1 that precede l2 in the cartesian product of their occurrences.
Similarly, we de ne the succeeding operator   as: Oh li   Oh lj = {oh li (t) | ti > tj   (oh l1 (t1), oh lj (t2))   Oh li   Oh lj } which gives the set of all occurrences of h in l1 that succeed l2 in the cartesian product of their occurrences.
We now de ne the spatial impact of location li on lj as the average of hashtag speci c spatial impact values, I h li lj , for all hashtags that occur in both the locations: Ili lj = Ph Hli I h li lj  Hlj |Hli   Hlj | The impact is 1 if a hashtag is posted only in li, as li clearly impacts lj in this case.
For similar reasons the impact is  1 when a hashtag is posted only in lj .
To understand the case when a hashtag is observed in both the locations consider the example shown in Figure 18.
In all three cases |Oh l1 | = 13, |Oh l2 | = 169.
l2 | = 169 and |Oh l1   Oh l2 | = 0.
l2 | = 13 and |Oh |Oh   Case (a): Hence, I h l1   Oh l1   Oh li lj = 169 0
 l2 | = 0 and |Oh l1   Oh l2 | = 169.
  Case (b): Hence, I h
 |Oh l1   Oh li lj = 0 169 l1   Oh li lj = 62 62 |Oh
 l2 | = 62.
l1   Oh l2 | = 62 and |Oh   Case (c): Hence, I h We visualize the spatial impact of a location using a spatial impact plot.
The x-axis represents the spatial impact values and is in the range [ 1, 1]; the y-axis shows the distribution of locations at these values.
Examples of impact plots for three locations can be found in Figure 19.
In every impact plot, locations on the left half of the plot are impacting locations and the locations on the right half of the plot are impacted locations.
Hence, plots for famous and large locations are generally right-heavy as they impact many locations.
Plots for small locations are mostly left-heavy as they are impacted by many locations.
For example, the impact plot for New York is right heavy since New York is an  early adopter  with a high spatial impact on other locations.
Interestingly, New York is actually impacted by both Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro, since Portuguese hashtags tend to  ow from Brazil to Portuguese-speaking neighborhoods in New York, whereas hashtags from New York are less likely to  ow to Brazil.
College Station (home to Texas A&M) is fairly small, with a left-heavy distribution, indicat-
(b) Austin (c) College Station Figure 19: Spatial impact plots for three locations.
Locations to the left of the origin are  early adopters  relative to the baseline location.
New York has a high impact, with almost all cities to the right of its origin.
College Station, on the other hand, is low impact since it only adopts hashtags after almost all other cities.
ing that it is a  late adopter .
Austin, on the other hand, has a balanced spatial impact, being both impacted by many locations and impacting many other locations.
In this paper, we have analyzed the spatio-temporal dynamics of social media propagation through a study of 2 billion geo-tagged Tweets.
Our study has consisted of three key parts: (i) a study of the global footprint of hashtags and an exploration of the spatial constraints on hashtag adoption; (ii) a study of three spatial properties of hashtag propagation   focus, entropy, and spread   and an examination of the spatial propagation of hashtags using these properties; and (iii) two spatial analytics techniques for characterizing the relative impact of locations.
We have found that hashtags are a global phenomenon, with locations all across the world.
But the physical distance between locations is a strong constraint on the adoption of hashtags, both in terms of the hashtags shared between locations and in the timing of when these hashtags are adopted.
We have also found that hashtags are mostly a local phenomenon with long-tailed life spans, but follow a  spray-and-di use  pattern [5] where initially a small number of locations  champion  a hashtag, make it popular, and the spread it to other locations.
We have found both spatial and temporal locality as most hashtags spread over small geographical areas but at high speeds.
The purpose of a hashtag and its global awareness determines how fast it will reach its peak.
A hashtag representing a globally known event reaches its peak much faster than either locally-known events or hashtags spread purely within the network (e.g., #ifyouknowmeyouknow).
Based on spatial and temporal categories we classi ed hashtags into di erent categories.
In our continuing work we are interested in hashtag category speci c analysis.
We want to study how the temporal characteristics of hashtags may di er depending upon their spatial categories.
This work was supported in part by NSF grant IIS-1149383 and a Google Research Award.
Any opinions,  ndings and conclusions or recommendations expressed in this material are the author(s) and do not necessarily re ect those of the sponsors.
