Human beings are social animals that are scarcely able to lead a solitary life (Baruch Spinoza, Ethics, IV, proposition
 that endure from one encounter to another.
A central theme in the study of human behavior is what makes a person become a member of a social group [16].
With the emergence of Web, many of our group interactions are moving online.
One example of this move is the curious emergent phenomenon called Twitter chats.
Twitter chats are public conversations, regularly held on Twitter on  Work done while the author was an intern at Search Labs.
Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Committee (IW3C2).
IW3C2 reserves the right to provide a hyperlink to the author s site if the Material is used in electronic media.
Figure 1: Overview of the 5F Model speci c topics at designated times.
For instance #engchat is a chat about English education held at 7-8pm EST on every Monday.
During a chat session, the participants continuously interact on the designated topic by tweeting their opinions and marking their tweets with the hashtag of the particular chat group.
While weekly groups like #engchat are the most common ones, there are others such as #mathchat that meet twice a week, #collegechat that meet biweekly or #edchat that are week-long conversations.
Most of the chat groups also have dedicated blogs that provide various resources such as transcripts of past sessions and schedule of upcoming discussions.
See [14] for a crowd-sourced list of Twitter chat groups.
The research question we investigate is what factors ensure continued individual participation in a Twitter chat.
More speci cally, our goal is to develop a model that can predict whether a person attending his/her  rst chat session in a particular Twitter chat group will return to the group.
Figure 1 pictorially depicts the 5F Model we employ.
Abstracting from the years of literature on group interactions in the physical o line world [16, 23, 30, 34, 37, 40, 42, 45, 51], we identify  ve major factors that a ect the participation of a person in a group: individual initiative, group characteristics, perceived receptivity, linguistic a nity, and geographic proximity.
The Twitter speci c measures corresponding to each of these factors are shown in boxes along the edges.
For example, the number of tweets, the number of URLS in the tweets, the number of mentions and retweets contributed by the person during her  rst session provide indication of her individual initiative.
Using data from thirty education-165related chat groups, we study the predictive power of these factors individually as well as collectively.
The paper proceeds as follows.
We begin with a discussion of related in work in  2.
We then present the 5F Model in  3.
The data sets used in the study are described in  4.
We present the results of our statistical analysis in  5.
This analysis delineates e ectiveness of various Twitter measures in predicting the continued participation.
We also carried out a survey to complement the statistical analysis.
The  ndings from this survey are presented in  6.
We conclude with a summary and directions for future work in  7.
Researchers in social sciences have long been studying group dynamics, focusing on di erent aspects such as formation, structure, cohesion or leadership [16].
In this paper, we focus on a key question relating to group dynamics: the ability of groups to sustain member relations.
The social science literature on this topic is rich.
Individual characteristics [30], group characteristics [16, 23, 40, 42, 45, 51], use of language [37] and geographical factors [34] are among the notions that have been studied and claimed to a ect the individual-group interactions.
Much of the classical social sciences research has been carried out for o line groups.
With the advent of the Internet, groups and communities arose in the virtual world as well.
Early research on online groups focused on structural characteristics of Usenet [7], listserv [35] and email groups [15].
With the arrival of next generation of social networks, the researchers had the opportunity to study group dynamics in online forums such as Yahoo groups [5], Google Groups [20], LiveJournal [3] and SecondLife [18].
Research questions addressed in the literature are as varied as the type of social networks studied and include topics such as structural properties [7], identi cation of sense of community [48], modeling individual behavior [5], use of language [20], identi cation of conversational themes [11], and evolution of the online communities [3].
i.e.
The focus of our paper, the factors necessary for continued participation of online community members, have been studied in [1, 6, 8, 10].
In [1], authors study Usenet newsgroups and identify characteristics that increase the likelihood of a particular post receiving a reply and a poster coming back to newsgroups.
They  nd that posters are less likely to get a reply if they were newcomers.
Posting on topic, asking questions, and using less complex language are also identi ed as being important.
In [8], authors analyze 200 responses to an open question regarding community loy- alty in  ve Norwegian online groups and identify nine main reasons for decreasing participation over time: lack of interesting attendees, low quality content, low usability, harassment, time sink, low trust, over-commercialization, dissatisfaction with moderators and boring content.
Chan et al. [10] identify three di erent forms of perceived recognition in a virtual community, namely identity, expertise and tangible recognition through an interpretive case study.
Through surveys, they claim that members share their expertise because it makes them feel self-e cacious.
In determining what makes an individual return to a particular community, Bateman et al. [6] study commitment theory originally introduced to study motivations behind voluntary work in online communities.
Their survey based study reveals that a ect-based, norm-based, and cost-based bonds collectively drive participation behavior in online communities.
In summary, related research on online communities mostly focused on a single factor in determining future participation while we introduce a framework that captures various factors.
Also, we employ a mixed-method approach while the related work employs either a qualitative [8, 10] or quantitative [1, 6] solution but not both.
With our approach, we can study group dynamics at scale as well as in detail.
Finally, related work in online communities focused on asynchronous groups while we study Twitter chats that provide a much better proxy to synchronous face-to-face interactions.
We now present our 5F Model for studying continued individual participation in a Twitter chat group.
The schematic we use is as follows.
For each factor in the model, we  rst discuss the prior literature from which the factor has been abstracted.
In some cases, we also identify subfactors that comprise the corresponding factor.
We then discuss the Twitter speci c measures for their computation.
Certain people are more likely than others to seek out membership in groups due to di erences in personal characteristics or motivations [16].
The big  ve theory [30] claims that people di er in  ve dimensions: extraversion, agreeableness, conscientiousness, neuroticism and openness.
These di erences are claimed to a ect the likelihood of participating in groups.
Of the  ve dimensions, extraversion is found to be a particularly in uential determinant [16].
The importance of individual-level characteristics such as high-engagement and longevity in group interactions have also been observed in online communities such as Yahoo Groups [5].
In order to capture the importance of user-speci c characteristics in group interactions, we consider the actions taken by the user at the  rst chat session that she attends.
The independent variables that relate to individual initiative are: 1. usertweetcount denotes the number of tweets the user contributes to the session.
This measure captures the extraversion dimension of the big  ve theory.
2. userurl denotes the number of urls the user contributes to the chat session.
This variable acts as a proxy for informational contribution by the user.
3. usermentions is the total number of times the user mentions another (by using @).
This measure captures how much the user engages in conversations.
4. userretweets is the number of retweets by the new comer user and captures the amount of information she found to be worth sharing with her followers.
The experience that a user has in attending her  rst chat session depends on the context which is shaped by the actions of the others in the group.
Therefore, these group-level 166characteristics can a ect the decision of the newcomer to re turn to the group.
For instance, [1] shows that group-level factors can be predictive of future participation in online blogs.
We next identify various group-level factors and study their signi cance.
Four main themes studied are: Amount of Information: Information overload refers to a person s state in which the overwhelming amount of information leads to communication inputs not being processed and utilized [40].
Information overload is especially important in the online context.
For instance, in a recent work on Usenet newsgroups it has been shown that users are more likely to end active participation as the overloading of mass interaction increases [23].
Conformance Informational in uence refers to group members using responses of others as reference points and informational resources [16].
This concept relates to conformity and has been observed in experimental studies in o ine groups [42].
Conformity can result in coherent groups, eliminating controversies.
Yet, too much conformity also throttles diverse perspective with reduced value for new users.
Inter-member relations Intermember relations play a critical role in determining whether a newcomer will come back to the group.
Too much or too little dyadic interaction between group members can a ect how a newcomer views the group [16].
The signi cance of inter-member relations has also been studied in [4] which focuses on individual arrival patterns in group discussions.
Group Maturity Various group formation theories (e.g.
stages of group development [45]) assert that groups become cohesive over time where uncertainty about goals and roles are resolved.
At the same time, such groups can become closed [51] to new members.
1. sessiontweetcount denotes the number of tweets in the chat session and captures the amount of information.
2. sessionurl is the number of urls shared in a chat ses- sion.
This measure also captures the amount of information.
We study sessionurl as a separate factor (in addition to sessiontweetcount) since tweets with URLs tend to be more informational than ordinary tweets.
3. groupretweets is the number of retweets in the chat session and captures conformity in the group.
4. groupmentions denotes the number of mentions in the chat session and quanti es intermember relations.
is computed as the number of sessions held until D.
For all these measures, we discount the tweets shared by the newcomer user for whom prediction is being made since the goal is to capture the context that the user interacts with rather than the context she creates.
Research in social sciences has established the importance of social inclusion in one s desire to a liate with both traditional [31, 39, 44] and online [1, 24] groups.
The importance of social inclusion is generally studied under ostracism which refers to the act of individuals or groups excluding or ignoring others [28, 49].
While some studies found that the excluded members respond by leaving the group [31, 39], others found increased desire to belong as a response [44].
We capture perceived receptivity through two variables: 1. ismentioned denotes whether the user is mentioned by at least one person in the chat session.
2. isretweeted indicates whether the user is retweeted.
Language is a key element in social interactions [2, 12,
 states that  whereever there is a distinctive culture, there is to be found a distinctive speech code .
This theory a rms individuals as either within or outside of the social structure by how in sync their language is with the language of the group.
It has been shown that linguistic similarity has positive correlation with lasting dyadic relationships [21].
This e ect has also been observed for group interactions in a recent study carried out in parallel to our study [13].
Another related work shows that the power di erentials between individuals can be revealed by how much one echoes the linguistic style of the person they are responding to [12].
We make use of Linguistic Inquiry and Word Count (LIWC) to compare linguistic markers between a user and a group.
LIWC is a text analysis software that calculates the degree to which people use di erent categories of words across a wide array of texts [36].
LIWC uses positive or negative emotions, self-references, causal words, and 83 other dimensions and has been used in various studies [21].
We consider the set of tweets a user ui shares in her  rst session as a text document and compute the value of each linguistic marker to obtain her LIWC-vector for that particular session.
Similarly, we aggregate all the tweets from users other than ui and compute the LIWC vector of the group.
To identify the similarity, we use Pearson correlation measure that provides the degree of linear relationship between two vectors.
This measure ranges from +1 to 1, with a large positive value indicating similar linguistic usage.
We refer to this measure as liwccors in our model.
Proximity Principle [34], a theory introduced in o ine groups, states that people tend to join close by groups.
Unlike the o ine context, recent research suggests that online social networks can overcome this barrier [18, 27].
However, [38, 46] show that geography plays an important role in our use of language or choice of friends even in the online world.
Hence, the role of geography is context-dependent and cannot be dismissed without investigation.
To study the in uence of geographical proximity, we calculate the mean distance of the user to everyone else in the
 the location  eld of the user pro le.
We mine for the following patterns: latitude-longitude, {city, region, country}, {city,region}, {city,country}, {region,country} and country.
For this purpose, we make use of data available from [29], which contains complete hierarchical information and coordinates for nearly 50,000 cities from all over the world.
We convert all mined patterns to latitude-longitude pairs.
For cities, we rely on the latitude-longitude points provided by the Gazetteer [29] and for regions and countries, we use the latitude-longitude of their most populated city.
Given this data, the distance d (in meters) between two users ui and uj with locations (lati, loni) and (latj, lonj ) can be computed through Haversine formula [43]: a = (sin(dlat/2))2 + cos(lati)   cos(latj)   (sin(dlon/2))2 c = 2   arcsin(min(1, p(a))) d = R   c where dlon = lonj   loni, dlat = latj   lati and R is the radius of the earth.
The proximity of a user ui to group gx at a given session is computed as the mean distance between ui and all other users uj who attended that chat session.
This measure is referred to as distance in our regression tasks.
We examined over 100 education related chats appearing in a crowd-sourced list on the Web [14].
We chose to focus on education-related groups because of potential synergies with the current research in MOOCs [9].
In addition, relevant research underlines the informational power of Twitter for educators [17] and this power could potentially be enhanced through an improved community experience.
Given the list in [14], we identify all tweets in each chat by capturing tweets with the corresponding hashtag.
For this purpose, we analyze all Twitter updates from June 2010-July 2012.
Next we  lter the list to eliminate chats with the  rst iden-ti ed tweet before September 2010 or after September 2011.
This eliminates chats that can potentially predate our data collection or do not have a su cient number of sessions.
Hashtags that represent these chats are also used outside the scheduled chat sessions.
For instance, a user sharing a tweet that relates to teaching can use the hashtag #teachchat even if the tweet is not shared during an actual session.
In order to  lter out such chatter, we rely on the bursty activity that is a general characteristic of hashtags that are associated with scheduled chat meet-ups.
By identifying the hours of high activity (and including the preceding and following hours in order to capture the anticipation and wrap-up tweets), we capture the sessions for each chat.
The hours of high activity are de ned as those that have a  ve-fold or more increase w.r.t.
the earlier time frame.
Our manual inspection has revealed that this simple technique accurately detects chat sessions.
Next, we further  lter the list of chats to only those with   10 sessions, which reduces the list of chats to 30.
We also considered relying on advertised chat hours to capture chat sessions.
However, this resulted in incorrect characterization as chat schedules get changed and various chat groups skip certain weeks, especially during summer.
(a) CDF of Number of users in per chat (b) Log-log scale plot of the number of chats per user (c) Log-log scale plot of degree distribution Figure 2: Characterization of Twitter Chats Table 1 gives an overview of the chats studied.
The columns of this table are: chat name, total number of tweets, total number of distinct users, number of sessions, and popular locations.
Popular locations are identi ed by counting tweets from a given location and selecting the top 5 locations.
We next provide high level characterization of the chats studied as well as the users that participate in them.
Distribution of the number of users in and outside chat sessions: The distribution of the number of distinct users in each chat is provided as a CDF graph in Figure 2(a).
The X-axis denotes the number of distinct users while the Y-axis denotes the fraction of the chats studied that have at most that many users.
Here, we distinguish between user activity within and outside of chat sessions.
The curve with + markers provides the distribution of users that participate in actual chat sessions while the other curve gives the distribution of users that tweeted same the hashtag at least once at some point of time (irrespective of whether the tweet was during a chat session).
The di erence between the two curves shows that a large number of users do not partici-168chat name #eltchat #sschat #kinderchat #engchat #langchat #edchatie #libchat #4thchat #phdchat #asechat #5thchat #isedchat #1stchat #addcym #fycchat #gtie #spedchat #pblchat #teachchat #atplc #titletalk #k12media #jedchat #flipclass #digcit #satchat #tichat #ageduchat #globalclassroom #slpchat discussion topic # tweets # users # sessions most popular locations English language teaching Social Studies Early childhood education English teachers Language teaching Irish educators/education Librarian discussions 4th grade teaching Current, former or aspiring PhD researchers Science education 5th grade teaching Independent school educators 1st grade teaching Welsch education system First year composition Gifted and talented network Ireland Learning issues Project-based learning All about teaching Professional Learning Communities How to promote reading K-12 Education Jewish educations Flipped classroom Digital Citizenship School leadership Tech Integration Agricultural education Global classroom project Speech language pathologists

























































































 Athens, Oxford, North Yorkshire, Stuttgart Illinois, Ogden, Berkeley, Chicago, Plymouth Princeton, Ontario, North Canton, Kansas Pennsylvania, Chicago, New Jersey, Iowa, Michigan Louisville, Napa, Michigan, Evansville, Newton Ireland, Dublin, Clonmel, Nenagh, Galway Tallahassee, Ohio, Carrollton, Indianapolis, USA New Orleans, Massachusetts, Colorado, Michigan, Ontario UK, Melbourne, Sussex, London, New Zealand UK, Cardiff, London, York North Yorkshire, Bristol Ontario, Georgia, USA, Dublin, San Antonio USA, Florida, Connecticut, Portland, Boston Hershey, Woodstock, Vancouver, Rochester, Montana Cupertino, Cardiff, Swansea, UK, London Dallas, Alabama, Minneapolis, Kansas City, Spartanburg Dublin, Wicklow, Ireland, United Kingdom, New Zealand Maryland, New York, USA, Wichita, Ohio Napa, Portland, Tacoma, Round Rock, Dallas Florida, Fort Worth, Lake Forest, California, USA Bloomington, Iowa, Chicago, San Diego, Mankato Bedford, Texas, Michigan, Ohio, Los Angeles Toronto, Canada, Chicago, Ontario, Illinois Israel, San Francisco, New York, Boston, USA Lake Forest, Evansville, Kelowna, Texas, New Jersey Birmingham, USA, Texas, Natick, Indianapolis New Jersey, Jericho, Virginia, Nebraska, Philadelphia Sachse, Pittsburgh, Texas, Ohio, Burlington Michigan, Raleigh, Iowa, Indianapolis, Wisconsin New Jersey, New Zealand, Melbourne, Bandung, Fort Worth Sydney, Barbados, Maryland, Indiana, North Dakota Table 1: Education Chats Studied pate in regular chat sessions but share at least one tweet with the corresponding hashtag.
Such users are excluded from our analysis in identifying members of chat groups.
Distribution of the number of distinct chats users participate in: Even though the speci c goal of chat groups studied in this paper vary, they are all related to education.
We found that users participate in more than one of them.
In Figure 2(b), we plot the distribution of the number of unique chat groups users participate.
The plot shows a skewed distribution.
While a large fraction of the population participates in only one chat group, there are a small number of users that participate in a large number of groups.
Degree distribution of education chat users: In Figure 2(c), we show the the in and out-degree distributions of Twitter users that participated in at least one education chat.
The plot shows a skewed distribution.
Most users follow and are followed by a small number of users while there are a small number of users that follow (or are followed by) a large number of users.
The skewed distribution (as well as the spike in the number of friends at   2000) is in agreement with related work in general Twitter population [26].
Geographical distribution of education chat users: We could geo-tag over 50% of the users using the mining procedure described in  3.5.2.
This number is significantly larger compared to the 21% for the general Twitter population [50].
Table 1 provides an overview of geographical distribution of each chat by listing the top-5 locations.
It shows that education chats are distributed all over the world.
Figure 3 plots users of 3 interesting education chats, namely #globalclassroom, #5thchat and #edchatie.
The three chats show distinct characteristics.
While #glob-alclassroom is distributed all over the world, #5thchat is mostly in U.S., and #edchatie is mostly in Ireland.
We note that #edchatie is a chat formed by Irish educators to discuss education in Ireland.
Figure 3: Geographical Distribution of Three Chats ity, and geographical proximity) as well as the uni ed 5F Model.
We use logistic regression [19] for statistical analysis and a Pseudo-R measure to compare the models.
In particular, we employ the commonly used Nagelkerke R2 Index [33]
 which can be computed as:
 , Here N is the size of the data set, L(Mf ull) is the likelihood of the model given the data set, and L(Mintercept) is the likelihood of the null model.
Larger Nagelkerke values indicate a better  t.1 We performed this analysis at the individual chat group level as well as by combining tweets from all the chat groups.
We present the results only for the combined case.
The results for individual chat groups were similar, except for the geographic proximity model.
We discuss those di erences along with the discussion of the geographic proximity model.
To predict whether a  rst-time visitor to a group will return for at least one more session in the future, we build individual models for the  ve factors (individual-initiative, group characteristics, perceived receptivity, linguistic a n-The regression results are summarized in Table 2.
This table has four columns.
The  rst column is the name of the
 value for each model [19].
AIC results were consistent with the Pseudo-R results and are not included.
column lists the Twitter speci c variables used for each of the corresponding factors.
The third column consists of two subcolumns.
The  rst subcolumn shows the co cients of the corresponding explanatory variables in the individual-level models, whereas the second subcolumn gives the coe cients for the un ed model.
The third column gives the pseudo-R measure for the individual models.
The pseudo-R value for the un ed model is 0.14 and is shown at the bottom of the table.
The statistically signi cant variables are marked with * for p-value < 0.05, ** for p-value < 0.01 and *** for p-value < 0.001.
Individual Initiative Model: The results show that all the variables except for usermentions are statistically signi cant.
The number of tweets are positively correlated with returning to the chat group, emphasizing the predictive power of early interest exhibited by the user.
The variable userurl is negatively correlated with returning to the group.
One possible explanation for this result can be given as follows: For users that share a large number of urls, i.e. users that already acquire a certain level of knowledge, the added informational gain from chat sessions can be smaller, resulting in less incentive to attend future sessions.
The negative correlation for userretweets indicates that retweeting behavior can be used to distinguish real participants of chat groups from those that are merely retweeting the tweets of their friends who are attending a chat session.
Consider the following illustrative scenario.
Assume that user1 attending #1stchat shares a tweet  Check out article bit.ly/342dfser #1stchat .
This tweet is seen not only by the attendees of #1stchat but also the followers of user1.
One such follower, say user2, can  nd the tweet interesting and retweet it.
Here, user2 who appears to be attending his  rst #1stchat session may not return to this group.
Group Characteristics Model: Statistically signi cant variables are groupretweets, sessiontweetcount, sessionurl and groupmaturity.
Capturing the signi cance of information overload, sessionurl and sessiontweetcount have negative correlation.
The variable groupmaturity has negative correlation with the odds of come back, i.e. users that attempt to join more mature groups are less likely to return to the group.
The results also indicate the signi cance of informational in uence as demonstrated by the statistical sig-ni cance and positive correlation of groupretweets.
However we observe that the correlations of these factors are relatively mild.
For instance, an increase of 1 retweet in group discussion decreases the log odds of come back by 0.0014.
Pseudo-R(=0.03) values for this model are worse when compared to those of individual initiative model, showing that individual initiative factors are relatively better indicators of future participation.
Perceived Receptivity Model: Both ismentioned and isretweeted are statistically signi cant and positively correlated with returning to a group.
Correlation measure is strong emphasizing the value of social inclusion.
This result is in agreement with relevant research in other online communities [1, 24].
The Pseudo-R(=0.08) value for this model is the third best among the individual models.
Linguistic A nity Model: Linguistic similarity is statistically signi cant and highly correlated with returning to a chat group.
This  nding supports our hypothesis and is in line with research in social sciences, particularly the speech Factors Variables Coefficients Pseudo-R usermentions userretweets userurl usertweetcount groupmentions groupretweets sessionurl sessiontweetcount groupmaturity ismentioned isretweeted liwccors Individual Model -0.016 -0.13*** -0.16***
 -0.0001
 -0.003*** -0.0005 -0.01***


 Unified
 -0.007 -0.077*** -0.092***
 -0.0004
 -0.002* -0.0008* -0.007***


 distance -0.00005*** -




Individual Initiative Group Characteristics Perceived Receptivity Linguistic Affinity Geographical Proximity Pseudo-R for the unified 5F Model = 0.14 * p < .05, ** p < .01, *** p < .001 Table 2: Results of Statistical Analysis codes theory.
The highest Pseudo-R value for this model shows that the linguistic characteristics are the best indicators of future participation.
In addition to evaluating linguistic similarity in an aggregate level, we also performed regression to identify the statistical signi cance of similarity along individual LIWC dimensions.
Our results show that the use of conjunctions (p-value = 0.002, examples: but, and), discrepancy words (p-value=0.003, examples: should, would), causal words (p-value=0.03), WPS (words per sentence, p-value < 0.0001), punctuation letters (p-value=0.02) were among the most signi cant dimensions.
Geographical Proximity Model: We see that returning to a group is only mildly correlated with geographical proximity.
An increased distance of 1km reduces the log odds of returning to the group by only 0.00005.
Regression tasks performed per-chat group showed that geographical proximity is statistically signi cant for only seven educational Twitter chats.
Two chats had positive correlation and  ve had negative correlation.
For instance, #globalclassroom has positive correlation with the variable distance, indicating the positive e ect of diverse locations in returning to the group.
Such behavior is to be expected given the global goal of this particular group.
Yet groups like #jedchat have negative correlation with increased distance.
This group is on Jewish education and is mostly popular in Israel.
Overall, the Pseudo-R value for this model is the worst among all models, showing that geographical characteristics are generally poor indicators of future participation.
The Uni ed 5F Model: In this model, we consider all the explanatory variables in conjunction, except geographic proximity (distance).
The reason for omitting the latter is that we could determine the location of only a subset of users and this factor anyway turned out to have limited  t.
As expected, this model has the largest Pseudo-R value.
Each independent variable has similar explanatory trend as we observed with individual models.
Our results show various parallels between Twitter chats and other o ine and online groups.
For instance, the importance of social inclusion that has been identi ed in both o ine and online groups [28, 31, 39, 44, 49] is also significant in Twitter chats; newcomers that are mentioned or retweeted by others in a chat session are much more likely to come back to the chat group.
Also, the use of language plays a critical role; newcomers that have a similar language
 the similar use of words related to education might be anticipated to e ect participation in educational Twitter chats, our results go beyond this  nding.
We show that similarity in the language along dimensions such as sentence complexity (words per sentence), causal words, or even punctuation letters reveal much about group interactions.
In other words, language de nes individuals as either insiders or outsiders of groups in Twitter chats as suggested by speech codes theory [37].
We also found that users are less likely to return to established groups, i.e. groups that have held a large number of chat sessions, indicating that groups become closed to new members over time [45].
The total number of tweets and urls shared in the chat session also decrease the likelihood of returning to a group.
While the idea of more information driving away participants can sound counter-intuitive at  rst, it can in fact be explained by the e ects of information overload [23, 40].
The large scale and synchronous nature of discussions held in Twitter chats likely magnify the e ects of information overload that is already prevalent in asynchronous online communities [23].
Our survey study also supports this  nding as we will demonstrate in  6.
One major distinction of Twitter chats from traditional groups is the insigni cance of geographical proximity.
Unlike o ine groups [34], we show that there is no correlation between geography and group a liation for most Twitter chats, the exceptions being chats organized around local topics (e.g.
#jedchat on Jewish education in Israel).
In fact, geographical diversity is considered as the most important advantage of Twitter chats as demonstrated in  6.
Turning to the relative importance of the factors, the best individual models to capture continued user participation in order are: linguistic a nity, individual initiative, perceived receptivity, group characteristics and geographical proximity.
This ordering reveals distinctions of Twitter chats from other groups studied in the literature.
For instance, related research claims that individuals are initially drawn to online communities by a desire to interact with like-minded others but whether they return is signi cantly in uenced by the content of the community [6].
Yet, our analysis shows that individual characteristics are better indicators of future participation than group characteristics.
In addition, past research emphasized the value of perceived receptivity as the dominant factor [10] while we  nd it to be the third statistically determining factor.
The impact of linguistic similarity in group participation is largely unexplored, yet we found this factor to be the best predictor of future participation.
We note that the 140 character limit that Twitter enforces for tweets likely introduces added challenges to the newcomers as this limit drives participants to use shorthand descriptions for various notions which can be confusing for the newcomers.
This  nding is also supported by our survey study.
We complemented the results from the statistical data analysis with a user survey to directly understand from users involved in Twitter chats their attitudes towards these chats.
We circulated an online survey of 26 questions (through Twitter) to users that participated in education chats.
Table
 of multiple choice questions with one possible answer are Characteristic The sense of belonging Emotional Support (Receiving encouragement, being listened to or sharing feelings) Informational Support (Advice, guidance, or links to new useful tools shared in group discussions) Instrumental Support (tangible resources shared by the members such as assisting with work or providing favors) Networking with friends/colleagues Making new friendship/professional connections No of survey respondents





 Table 4: Uses of Twitter Education Chats marked as (a), (b), and so on.
When more than one option can apply, they are marked as (i), (ii), and so on.
The survey was publicized in educational Twitter chats through the hashtag of each chat group studied.
Respondents of the survey were encouraged to share the survey with their Twitter followers.
In all, sixty users responded to our survey.
Fifty of the survey participants identi ed themselves as educators.
One identi ed himself as a student.
Three participants stated that they were both an educator and a student.
Three stated that they were both an educator and a parent of a student.
Fourteen, nineteen, twenty three and four of the survey participants stated that they participate in one, two, three-to- ve and more than  ve education chats respectively.
The number of distinct Twitter education chats participated by our survey respondents is sixty six.
2
 The survey had three main parts, addressing questions related to: (1) usage, advantages and disadvantages, (2) sense of community and responsibility, and (3) evolution of participation.
We discuss  ndings for these segments next.
Usage, Advantages and Disadvantages: Table 4 shows the number of survey participants who identi ed a particular characteristic of Twitter chats.
The results show that most users value the informational support provided in Twitter chats.
The ability of Twitter to connect people with others is another important theme.
The results show an interesting distinction between educational Twitter chats and other online groups [47, 48] for which emotional support is found to be more signi cant.
In fact, in past research, sense of community is found to be negatively correlated with informational support [48].
Yet, as we will discuss later, sense of community is strong in Twitter chats despite the fact that informational support is more dominant than emotional support.
When asked to identify the advantages of Twitter chats compared to face-to-face meetings and online groups, the survey respondents gravitated towards similar high level observations even though they were not provided with a set of prede ned options.
The results are presented in Table 5.
The most common advantage identi ed is the diversity in backgrounds and geographical locations of chat participants.
statistically sound representative sample, the reader should view the  ndings as anecdotal.
We also note the possibility of positive bias towards Twitter groups since those who left them are less likely to have responded to the survey.
The results are instructive, nonetheless.
Uses, Advantages, and Disadvantages of Twitter chats
 (i) The sense of belonging (ii.)
Emotional Support ( for instance receiving encouragement, being listened to or sharing feelings ) (iii.)
Informational Support: Advice, guidance, or links to new useful tools shared in group discussions (iv.)
Instrumental Support: Tangible resources shared by the members such as assisting with work or providing favors (v.) Networking with friends/colleagues (vi.)
Making new friendship/professional connections (vii.)
None of the above.
Please list other important characteristics that are not listed above [specify]



 Sense of Community and Responsibility
 (i) Over twitter (follow, mention or retweet) (ii) Other online means such as emailing or blogging (iii) Offline (examples: face-to-face meet-ups, phone calls) (iv.)
Other: [specify]


 (i) Moderating (ii) Recommending novel ideas for discussions, approaches, solutions (iii) Providing data/facts/tools useful for making decisions (iv) Giving your opinion on topics (v) Refocusing or stimulating discussions that flag (vi.)
Taking notes or providing the archives for the chat (vi.)
Verbally evaluating the quality of discussion in chat sessions as well as the results of discussions (vii.)
Engaging others in discussion (for instance through @mention) (viii.)
Publicizing the chat (ix.)
A task that is not listed here (x.)
I do not perform any task Any other task you can think of that is not included in this list?
[specify]

 Is it self-assigned or assigned by the community?
How long have you been holding this task?
Evolution
 (i) Through another twitter chat (ii) Through general twitter usage (iii) Web search (iv) Education related forum/blog (v) Facebook (vi) Email (vii) Offline connections (through a friend, colleague etc.)
(viii) I founded/co-founded the chat (ix) Other: [specify]
 (i) Out of curiosity, to explore (ii) To learn new information/tools/methods (iii) To make new connections (iv) To communicate with the friends and colleagues you already knew (v) For the sense of community, belonging (vi) For emotional support: to share feelings/frustrations (vii) For receiving help on tasks (viii) None of the above.
Any other reasons not listed above?
[specify]
 surprises?
What made you come back to attend another session (or not)?
Table 3: Survey Questions Advantage Diversity in backgrounds and geography Convenience Ease of sharing information Ability to archive and search older chats Public form and equality No of survey respondents




 Table 5: Advantages of Twitter Chats Disadvantage No of survey respondents Pace and Amount of Information Flow 9
 Twitter syntax Lack of face-to-face interactions
 Table 6: Disadvantages of Twitter Chats This  nding is in line with the result of our data analysis that showed that geography is not a limiting factor for most chat groups.
One interesting advantage identi ed by the survey respondents notes a signi cant di erence between face-to-face groups and Twitter chats: the ability to record group discussions.
Twenty six survey participants provided disadvantages of Twitter chats.
Three most dominant themes are listed in Table 6.
Interestingly, lack of face-to-face interactions was only at the third place while it has been found to be the dominant factor in the literature [22].
Instead, the most important disadvantage is the pace and amount of information.
This result is a direct implication of the unique characteristic of Twitter chats since unlike other online groups, they introduce the added challenge of interacting with a large crowd in a synchronous manner.
We note that three people indicated that there were no disadvantages of Twitter chats.
The rest ( ve survey participants) touched on various topics such as the public characteristic of conversations limiting negative discussions or the timing of the chats.
Sense of community and responsibility: Fifty three of the survey respondents stated that they felt a sense of community in Twitter education chats while three stated that they did not.
The ties built during the course of chat sessions extend beyond the group meetings.
Fifty six respondents stated that they interact with other chat participants over Twitter (follow, mention, retweet) outside the sessions.
Forty  ve interact with others through other online means such as emailing and blogging.
In fact, the interactions go beyond the virtual world.
Twenty seven respondents stated that they communicate with others in their chat groups through o line means as well (examples: face-to-face meet-ups, phone calls).
Video-based online tools such as Skype, Google Hangout are also popular (eight respondents).
The fraction of chat participants that communicate outside chat sessions is much larger compared to other virtual communities discussed in the literature [41].
We give below a few example quotes from our survey that demonstrate the strength of ties: I created #1stchat when I was a  rst grade teacher.
It is an amazing group of teachers and I consider them great friends.
We are more than a group, it s almost family like.
People know of vacations, major events, and other things in the lives of those who chat.
ily.
On the downside, as a group gets more mature and connected, it can also become closed to new members as demonstrated by the responses of two survey participants: tends to become very cliquey and the key ...
players over time use more and more  insider  references or hold more and more side discussions during the chat.
I feel as though a hierarchy has developed and there are times where people within that hierarchy at times will dismiss other ideas.
These write-ins support the results presented in  5 that show the negative correlation of group maturity with returning to a group.
Thirty nine survey participants stated that they feel a responsibility to the community to participate in chat sessions while seventeen stated that they did not.
Drawing on commitment theory [32] that was initially introduced to reason about volunteer behavior, we considered the responses of the survey participants to identify behavior indicative of three types of commitment: a ect-based which refers to individual s emotional attachment to a group, norm-based which captures individual s felt sense of obligation and cost-based which refers to individual s awareness of the costs associated with leaving an organization.
We found norm-based and cost-based bonds to be prevalent.
Examples of cost-based bonds can be seen in users that see Twitter chats as a valuable utility and are driven to participate due to its bene ts: People  lurk and lear  all the time.
You go if you want - it s YOUR PD, when and how YOU want it.
Although the open form of Twitter chats allows for  lurking  behavior, there is still a large number of dedicated members that are driven by norm-based bonds.
These participants view reciprocity as an important notion and feel obligated to participate as demonstrated by the following quotes: I take others  ideas, so it s only right I respond in kind.
I know that I appreciate learning from others and sharing ideas, so I think it s my duty to reciprocate.
Unlike related work [6], we have not observed a ect-based bonds to be prevalent in Twitter chats.
This outcome is consistent with the dominance of informational support over emotional support.
Origins and Evolution: Fifteen respondents discovered their primary education chat group through another Twitter chat.
Seventeen became aware of the existence of such groups through general Twitter usage.
Nine stated that they created/co-created their chat groups.
While research in online social networks focuses on the e ectiveness of social networks to spread information [25], our survey revealed that a notable fraction of Twitter users discovered their primary educational Twitter chat through exogenous channels (nine through education related forums/blogs, six through o ine connections and three through emails).
The four main reasons listed by the survey respondents as the initial goals/reasons for participating in Twitter chats were: to explore, out of curiosity (27), to learn new infor-mation/tools/methods (28), to make new connections (17), and for the sense of belonging (9).
These reasons are more information-based rather than social-connection-based unlike related work [41].
Thirty respondents stated that their view of the chat group changed over time; with most people stating that it became easier for them to follow conversations that caused them to change their view.
Only ten respondents stated their position and responsibilities had changed over time.
Two stated that they had become less active, with one of them ending active participation.
Eight respondents had become more integral to groups over time taking on more responsibilities.
The users with decreased participation mentioned the unwelcoming environment.
One stated: I was welcomed and greeted warmly - I went back - it wasn t repeated - but the conversation was worth it, so I lurk and read archives.
This quote reinforces the importance of perceived receptivity which was found to be important in our statistical data analysis ( 5).
Feedback: We also asked the survey respondents how the quality of conversations can be improved in Twitter chats.
There were fourteen responses with suggestions.
Most replies highlight problems that can be addressed through technological solutions.
Some common themes were:  Once a tweet is retweeted in the chat, protocol should be that no one else retweets it.
I  nd multiple retweets to very frustrating and clutters up the feed. ,  All chats should be archived ,  A central place to  nd other chats that are on topic would be helpful.  Some comments go to the nature of the groups:  Allow di ering opinions to be more than fodder for side-chats. ,  Sometimes chats can use a tone that is condescending to new people.
Please don t use terms like  newbies! ,  More educators need to get on the bus and join in on twitter. , A few chats could be better-prepared by organisers: eg greater publicity (reminders in advance), more guiding questions and more resources , If people are looking for professional development on Twitter, they need to be willing to be challenged and respond, rather than run away with hurt feelings that leave them unchanged. 
 Our survey study marks various distinctions between Twitter chats and other online groups and face-to-face discussions.
For one, informational support has been found to be more important to Twitter chat users than emotional support.
Although related work suggests that informational support is negatively correlated with the sense of community [48], the sense of community is very strong in Twitter chats.
In fact, its members communicate with one another outside chat sessions much more than expected from the literature [41].
Disadvantages identi ed by the survey respondents also mark an interesting distinction between Twitter chats and other online groups.
While for other online communities, the lack of face-to-face interactions is a main disadvantage, Twitter chat users focus on the content.
More
 ter, the pace of information is the biggest challenge of Twitter chats.
We have also observed that the survey results reinforce most  ndings presented in Section 5.
The importance of social inclusion is observed from the responses of two survey participants that reduced (one ending) their participation due to the lack of receptivity.
Groups becoming closed to new members over time (as captured by groupmaturity in our model) is seen anecdotally in survey results.
The geographical diversity listed as an advantage also indicates that geography is not a limiting factor for Twitter chats.
What makes a person become a member of a particular group?
We addressed this question in the context of Twitter chats which are time-bound synchronous group interactions carried out in real time on a focused topic on Twitter.
We developed 5F Model that predicts whether a person attending her  rst chat session in a particular Twitter chat group will return to the group.
This model considers  ve di erent classes of factors: individual-initiative, group characteristics, perceived receptivity, linguistic a nity and geographical proximity, building upon  ndings from prior research on asynchronous online groups and communities.
We performed statistical data analysis for thirty educational Twitter chats involving 71411 users and 730944 tweets over a period of two years.
Analysis was performed to identify the signi cance of separate models for each of the  ve factors listed above as well as the uni ed 5F Model.
We also complemented the results of statistical analysis with a survey study.
Our results show that users are more likely to return to Twitter chats that mention or retweet them, stressing the importance of social inclusion.
Unlike o ine groups, we  nd that for most Twitter chat groups, geographical proximity is not a limiting factor for a user to a liate with a group.
In addition, we show that informational support is more important than emotional support in educational Twitter chats.
Unlike what is suggested by research in other online communities, the sense of community in Twitter chats is very strong despite this  nding.
Given the synchronous nature and popularity of Twitter chats, we also observed that information overload was a signi cant challenge.
Interestingly, our results indicate that the best predictor for future participation is linguistic a nity, as opposed to individual or group characteristics that the literature mostly focuses on.
To the best of our knowledge, this is the  rst work to consider group dynamics questions in Twitter chats.
The  ndings of this study provide various insights for Twitter chat organizers.
For instance, creating a welcoming environment and providing ways to alleviate the unpleasant e ects of information overload are two paths to long-lasting user participation in Twitter chats.
As future work, we aim to extend our work on educational Twitter chats to chats held on other topics.
This would allow us to identify the generalizability of the  ndings in educational chats and determine characteristics that are unique to them.
While we focused on the  rst interactions of participants with Twitter chat groups, it is also important to identify how individual-group interactions evolve over time.
For this purpose, we aim to study the evolution of Twitter chats, identify di erent types of chat participants and quantify their contributions to the success of Twitter groups over time.
We would like to thank James Cook, Krishnaram Ken-thapadi, and Nina Mishra for bringing the Twitter chat phenomenon to our attention.
We would also like to thank Nina Mishra and Jed Brubaker for the insightful discussions.
