A signi cant majority of today s Internet users rely on Facebook and Twitter for their online social interactions.
In June of 2011, Google launched a new Online Social Network (OSN), called Google+ (or G+ for short) in order to claim a fraction of the social media market and its associated pro t.
G+ o ers a combination of Facebook and Twitter-like services in order to attract users from both rivals.
There Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Committee (IW3C2).
IW3C2 reserves the right to provide a hyperlink to the author s site if the Material is used in electronic media.
has been several o cial reports about the rapid growth of G+ s user population (400M users in Sep 2012) [1] while some observers and users dismissed these claims and called G+ a  ghost town  [2].
This raises the following important question:  Can a new OSN such as G+ really attract a sig-ni cant number of engaged users and be a relevant player in the social media market? .
A major Internet company such as Google, with many popular services, is perfectly positioned to implicitly or explicitly require (or motivate) its current users to join its OSN.
Then, it is interesting to assess to what extent and how Google might have leveraged its position to make users join G+.
Nevertheless, any growth in the number of users in an OSN is really meaningful only if the new users adequately connect to the rest of the network (i.e., become connected) and become active by using some of the o ered services by the OSN on a regular basis.
We also note that today s Internet users are much more savvy about using OSN services and connecting to other users than users a decade ago when Facebook and Twitter became popular.
This raises other related questions:  how has the connectivity and activity of G+ users evolved over time as users have become signi cantly more experienced about using OSNs?  and  whether these evolution patterns exhibit di erent characteristics compared to earlier major OSNs? .
These evolution patterns could also o er an insight on whether users willingly join G+ or are added to the system by Google.
In this paper, we present a comprehensive measurement-based characterization of connectivity and activity among G+ users and their evolution over time in order to shed an insightful light on all the above questions.
We start by providing a brief overview of G+ in Section 2.
One of our contributions is our measurement methodology to e ciently capture complete snapshots of G+ s largest connected component (LCC), several large sets of randomly selected users, and all the publicly-visible activities (i.e., user posts) of LCC users with their associated reactions from other users.
To our knowledge, this is one of the largest and more diverse collection of datasets used to characterize an OSN.
We describe our datasets in Section 3 along with our measurement methodology.
In Section 4, using our LLC snapshots, we characterize the evolution of the LCC size during the past year.
Furthermore, we leverage the randomly selected users to characterize the relative size of the main components (i.e., LCC, small par-
of their relative size over time along with the fraction of publicly visible posts and pro le attributes for users in each component.
Our results show that while the size of the LCC has increased at an impressive pace over the past year, its relative size has consistently decreased such that the LCC currently makes up only 1/3rd of the network and the rest of the users are mostly singletons.
The large and growing fraction of singletons appears to be caused by Google s integrated registration process that implicitly creates a G+ account for any new Google account regardless of the user s interest.
Furthermore, we discover that LCC users generate most of the public posts and provide a larger number of attributes in their pro le.
Since LCC users form the most important component of G+ network, we focus the rest of our analysis on the LCC.
We then turn our attention to the publicly visible activity of LCC users and its evolution during the entire lifetime of G+ in Section 5.
We discover that the aggregate number of posts by LCC users and their reactions (namely comments, plusones or reshares) from other users have been steadily increasing over time.
Furthermore, a very small fraction of LCC users generate posts and the posts from an even smaller fraction of these users receive most of the reactions from other users, i.e., user actions and reactions are concentrated around a very small fraction of LCC users.
The fraction of active LCC users has increased 60 times slower than LCC population.
The comparison of users activity among G+, Twitter and Facebook reveals that G+ users are signi cantly less active than in the other two OSNs.
Finally, we explore the evolution of connectivity features of the LCC in Section 6 and show that many of its features have initially evolved but have stabilized in recent months despite the continued signi cant growth in its population, i.e., the connectivity features appear to have reached a level of maturity.
Interestingly, many connectivity features of the current G+ network have a striking similarity with the same feature in Twitter but are very di erent from Facebook.
More speci cally, the fraction of reciprocated edges among LCC users are small (and mostly associated with low degree and nonactive users) and the LCC network has become increasingly less clustered.
Furthermore, we observe a strong positive correlation between the popularity (i.e., number of followers) and rate of posts of individual G+ users.
In summary, the similarity of connectivity features for G+ and Twitter networks coupled with the concentration of posting activity (and their reaction) on a small fraction of popular users and the small fraction of bidirectional relationships in the LCC indicate that G+ network is primarily used for broadcasting information.
After a few unsuccessful attempts (Buzz [7], Wave [19] and Orkut [20, 21]), Google launched G+ on June 28th 2011 with the intention of becoming a major player in the OSNs market.
Users were initially allowed to join by invitation.
On September 20th, G+ became open to public and the G+ Pages service was launched on November 7th 2011 [13,
 nesses to connect with interested users.
Furthermore, also in November 2011, the registration process was integrated with other Google services (e.g., Gmail, YouTube) [17, 18].
G+ features have some similarity to Facebook and Twitter.
Similar to Twitter (and di erent from Facebook) the relationships in G+ are unidirectional.
More speci cally, user A can follow user B in G+ and view all of B s public posts without requiring the relationship to be reciprocated.
We refer to A as B s follower and to B as A s friend.
Moreover, a user can also control the visibility of a post to a speci c subset of its followers by grouping them into circles.
This feature imitates Facebook approach to control visibility of shared content.
It is worth noting that this circle-based privacy setting is rather complex for average users to manage and thus unskilled users may not use it properly1.
Each user has a stream (similar to Facebook wall) where any activity performed by the user appears.
The main activity of a user is to make a  post .
A post consists of some (or no) text that may have one or more attached  les, called  attachments .
Each attachment could be a video, a photo or any other  le.
Other users can react to a particular post in three di erent ways: (i) Plusone: this is similar to the  like  feature in Facebook with which other users can indicate their interest in a post, (ii) Comment: other users can make comments on a post, and (iii) Reshare: this feature is similar to a  retweet  in Twitter and allows other users resend a post to their followers.
G+ assigns a numerical user ID and a pro le to each user.
The user ID is a 21-digit integer where the highest order digit is always 1 (e.g., 113104553286769158393).
Our examination of the assigned IDs did not reveal any clear strategy for ID assignment (e.g., based on time or mod of certain numbers).
Note that this extremely large ID space (1020) is sparsely populated (large distance between user IDs) which in turn makes identifying valid user IDs by generating random numbers impractical.
Similar to other OSNs, G+ users have a pro le that has 17  elds where they can provide a range of information and pointers (e.g., to their other pages) about themselves.
However, providing this information (except for sex) is not mandatory for creating an account and thus users may leave some (or all) attributes in their pro le empty.
Furthermore, users can limit the visibility of speci c attributes by de ning them as  private  and thus visible to a speci c group2.
For a more detailed description of G+ functionality we refer the reader to [11, 12].
This section presents our techniques for data collection (and validation) and then a summary of our datasets that we use for our analysis.
Capturing LCC Structure: To capture the connectivity structure of the Largest Connected Component (LCC), we use a few high-degree users as starting seeds and crawl the structure using a breadth rst search (BFS) strategy.
Our initial examination revealed that the allocated users IDs are very evenly distributed across the ID space.
We leverage this feature to speed up our crawler as follows: We divide the ID space into 21 equal-size zones and assign a crawler to only crawl users whose ID falls in a particular zone.
Given user u in zone i, the assigned crawler to zone i collects the
 to guide users to determine their privacy setting in [8].
visible attribute is private or not speci ed by the user.
LCC-Dec* LCC-Apr LCC-Aug LCC-Sep LCC-Oct LCC-Nov #nodes #edges























 Start Date Duration (days)











 Users Posts Attachments Plusones Comments Reshares









 Table 3: Main characteristics of Activities among active users in the LCC (collected in Sep 2012) Label
 Date TW-Pro Twitter Jul 2011 Info Pro le Table 1: Main characteristics of LCC snapshots TW-Con [26] Twitter Aug 2009 Name Rand-Apr Rand-Oct Rand-Nov #nodes #edges











 Start Date Duration (days)





 Table 2: Main characteristics of Random datsets pro le along with the list of friends and followers for user u.
Any newly discovered users whose ID is in zone i are placed in a queue to be crawled whereas discovered users from other zones are periodically reported to a central coordinator.
The coordinator maps all the reported users by all 21 crawlers to their zone and periodically (once per hour) sends a list of discovered users in each zone to the corresponding crawler.
This strategy requires infrequent and e cient coordination with crawlers and enables them to crawl their zones in parallel.
The crawl of each zone is completed when there is no more users in that zone to crawl.
After some tuning, the average rate of discovery for each crawler reached 800K users per hour or 16.8M users per day for the whole system3.
With this rate, it takes 4-6 days to capture a full snapshot of the LCC connectivity and users  pro les.
Table 1 summarizes the main characteristics of our LCC datasets.
We obtained the LCC-Dec snapshot from an earlier study on G+[39].
We examined the connectivity of all the captured LCC snapshots and veri ed that all of them form a single connected component.
Sampling Random Users: Our goal is to collect random samples of G+ users for our analysis.
To our knowledge, none of the prior studies on G+ achieved this goal.
The sparse utilization of the extremely large ID space makes it infeasible to identify random users by generating random IDs.
To cope with this challenging problem, we leverage the search function of the G+ API to e ciently identify a large number of seemingly random users.
The function provides a list of up to 1000 users whose name or surname matches a given input keyword.
Careful inspection of search results for a few surnames revealed that G+ appears to order the reported users based on their level of connectivity and activity, i.e. users with a higher connectivity or activity (that are likely to be more interesting) are listed at the top of the result.
Since searching for popular surnames most likely results in more than 1000 users, the reported users are biased samples.
To avoid this bias, we selected a collection of
 sus [9] with low to moderate popularity and used the search function of the API to obtain matched G+ users.
We consider the list of reported users only if it contains less than
 ples because G+ must report all matched users, and there
 therefore it took longer.
thermore, the high immigration level of US allows to  nd surnames from di erent geographical regions.
(80K rand.
users) Connectivity (55M users) Activity (895K rand.
users) TW-Act [43] Twitter Jun 2010 FB-Pro Facebook Jun 2012 Pro le (480K rand.
users) FB-Con Facebook Jun 2012 Connectivity (75K rand.
users) FB-Act Facebook Sep 2012 Activity (16k rand.
users) Table 4: Features of other datasets in our analysis is no correlation between surname popularity and the connectivity (or activity) of the corresponding users.
Table 2 summarizes the main characteristics of our random datasets.
Note that the timing of each one of the random datasets is aligned with a LCC dataset.
To validate the above strategy, we collect two groups of more than 140K samples from the search API, users whose name match popular and unpopular (< 1000 users) surnames, in Sep 2012.
We focus on samples from each group that are located in the LCC since we have a complete snapshot of the LCC that can be used as ground truth.
In particular, we compare the connectivity of samples from each group that are located in the LCC with all users in the LCC-Sep snapshot.
Figure 1 plots the distribution of the number of followers and friends for these two groups of samples and all users in the LCC, respectively.
These  gures clearly demonstrate that only the collected LCC samples from unpopular surnames exhibit very similar distributions of followers and friends with the entire LCC.
A Kolgomorov-Smirnov test con rms that they are indeed the same distribution.
The collected samples from popular surnames have a stronger connectivity and thus are biased.
Capturing User Activity: We consider user activity as a collection of all posts by individual users and the reaction (i.e. Plusones, Comments and Reshares) from other users to these posts.
User activity is an important indicator of user interest and thus the aggregate activity (and reactions) across users is a good measure of an OSN popularity.
Despite its importance, we are not aware of any prior study that examined this issue among G+ users.
Toward this end, we focus on user activity in the most important element of the network (i.e. the LCC).
We leverage the G+ API to collect all the public posts and their associated reactions for all LCC-Sep users between G+ release date (Jun 28th 2011) and the date our measurement campaign started (Sep 7th 2012), i.e. 437 days.
Given the cumulative nature of recorded activity for each user, a single snapshot of activity contains all the activities until our data collection time.
Furthermore, since each post has a timestamp, we are able to determine the temporal pattern of all posts from all users.
Note, that the G+ API limits the number of daily queries to 10K per registered application.
Then, we use 303 accounts to collect the referred data in 68 days.
Table 3 summarizes the main features of the activity dataset.
In particular, note that only
 post in the analyzed period.
Search API unpopular (<1000) Search API popular (>1000) LCC (Reference)

 Num.
Friends

 Search API unpopular (<1000) Search API popular (>1000) LCC (Reference)

 Num.
Followers



 (a) Num Followers (b) Num Friends s r e s
 .
m u






 Number of Users Avg.
Number of arriving users (Users/day) Avg.
Number of departing users (Users/day)


  





  





  





  





  





  


 Figure 1: Distribution of #followers (a) and #friends (b) for users collected from the search function of G+ API with popular surnames (>1000 users), users collected with unpopular surnames (< 1000 users), and all LCC users (Reference) Figure 2: Evolution of total size and #ar-riving and #departing LCC users over time Other datasets: There are a few other datasets for Twitter and Facebook that we have either collected or obtained from other researchers.
Table 4 summarizes the main features of these datasets.
In the absence of any public dataset for Facebook, we developed our own crawler and collected the pro le (FB-Pro) connectivity (FB-Con) and activity (FB-Act) for random Facebook users.
We also collect the pro le (TW-Pro) for random Twitter users.
The macro-level connectivity structure among G+ users should intuitively consist of three components: (i) The largest connected component (LCC), (ii) A number of partitions that are smaller than the LCC (with at least 2 users), and (iii) Singletons or isolated users.
We  rst examine the temporal evolution of the LCC size and then discuss the relative size of di erent components and their evolution over time.
Evolution of the LCC Size: Having multiple snapshots of the LCC at di erent times enables us to examine the growth in the number of LCC users over time and determine the number of users who depart or arrive between two consecutive snapshots as shown in Figure 2 using log scale for the y axis.
This  gure illustrates that the overall size of the LCC has increased from 35M to 52M in four months between December 2011 and April 2012 at an average growth rate of 155K users per day.
This average rate has even increased to 207K users per day between April and November
 sign that they have intentionally joined G+ by making the explicit e ort to connect to other users (i.e., these are interested users).
While the daily rate of increase in the number of interested users (150K-200K) is impressive, it is an order of magnitude smaller than the .95-1.8M daily increase in the total population of G+ users that is o cially reported by Google [1].
The di erence between the rate of growth for the overall system and LCC must be due to other components of the network (small partitions and singletons) as we explore later in this section.
We observed some short term variations in the growth rate of LCC users (as shown in Figure 2) which is consistent with the reported results by another recent study on another large OSN [28].
Figure 2 also shows that LCC users have been departing the LCC at an average rate of 9.6K users per day.
We carefully examined these departing users and discovered two points: (i) all of the departing users have removed their G+ accounts, and (ii) the distribution of #fol-lowers, #friends and public attributes of departing users is very similar to all LCC users, however most of them are inactive.
This seems to suggest that the departing users have lost their interest due to the lack of incentives to actively participate in the system.
Evolution of the Main Components: To estimate the relative size of each component and its evolution over time, we determine the mapping of users in a random dataset to the three main components of the G+ structure.
LCC users can be easily detected using the corresponding LCC snapshot for each random dataset (e.g., LCC-Oct for Rand-Oct).
For all the users outside the LCC, we perform a BFS crawl from each user to verify whether a user is a singleton or part of a partition, and in the latter case determine the size of the partition.
The  rst part of Table 5 presents the relative size of all three components using our random datasets in April, October and November of 20125.
Table 5 shows that the relative size of the LCC has dropped from 43% (in Apr) to
 increased from 55% to 66% during the same period.
Note that this drop in the relative size of the LCC occurs despite the dramatic increase in the absolute size of the LCC (as we reported earlier).
This simply indicates an even more signi cant increase in the number of singletons.
We believe that this huge increase in the number of singletons is a side e ect of the integrated registration procedure that Google has implemented.
In this procedure, a new G+ account is implicitly created for any user that creates a new Google account to utilize a speci c Google service such as Gmail or YouTube6.
The implicit addition of these new users to G+ suggests that they may not even be aware of (or do not have any interest in) their G+ accounts.
The relatively small and
 u as a singleton if u has a private list of friends and followers and, all of u s friends and followers also have a private list of followers and friends.
However, we believe this is rather unlikely.
Indeed our BFS crawl on the LCC identi ed about 7.5% users with private friend and follower lists who were detected through their neighbors.
Gmail and YouTube accounts.
% users % users public posts % users public attr.
Partitions Singletons All Apr



 Oct



 Nov



 Apr Oct Nov











 Apr



 Oct



 Nov



 Table 5: Fraction of G+ users, active users and users with public attributes across G+ components along with the evolution of these characteristics from April to November of 2012 (based on the corresponding Random datasets) decreasing size of the LCC for the G+ network exhibits a completely di erent characteristic than the one reported for the LCC of other major OSNs.
For instance, 99.91% of the registered Facebook users were part of the LCC as of May
 users with just 0.2% singletons in August 2009 [26].
Furthermore, Leskovec et al. [38] showed that the relative size of the LCC of other social networks (e.g., the arXiv citation graph or an a liation network) has typically increased with time until it included more than 90% of their users.
Partitions make up only a small and rather stable fraction (1.5%) of all G+ users.
We identi ed tens of thousands of such partitions and discovered that 99% of these partitions have less than 4 users in all snapshots.
The largest partition was detected in Rand-Apr snapshot with 52 users.
The last two parts of Table 5 present the fraction of all G+ users that have at least one public post or provide public attributes in their pro les (on the last row) and the breakdown of these two groups across di erent components of the G+ network.
We observe that the fraction of users that generate at least one public post has dropped from 10% to 8.7%, and the majority of them are part of the LCC.
Similarly, the fraction of users with at least one public attribute have dropped from roughly 30% to 24% over the same period.
A large but decreasing fraction of these users are part of the LCC and a smaller but growing fraction of them are singletons.
Since the LCC is the well connected component that contains the majority of active users, we focus our remaining analysis only on the LCC.
In summary, the absolute size of the LCC in the G+ network has been growing by 150-200K users/day while its relative size has been decreasing.
This is primarily due to the huge increase in the number of singletons that is caused by the implicit addition of new Google account holders to G+.
In November of 2012, the LCC made up 1/3rd and the rest of the network mostly consists of singletons.
Less than 9% of G+ users generate any post, and less than 25% provide any public attribute, and a majority of both groups are LCC users.
To investigate users activity, we characterize publicly visible (or in short  public ) posts by LCC users as well as other users  reactions (including users outside the LCC) to these public posts7.
An earlier study used ground-truth data to show that more than 30% of posts in G+ were public during the ini-
in G+ for obvious reasons.
It might be feasible to create a G+ account and connect to a (potentially) large number of users in order to collect their private posts.
However, such a technique is neither representative nor ethical.
tial phase of the system [35].
However, the proposed setting by Google encourages users to generate public posts and reactions since only these public activities are indexable by search engines (including Google), and thus visible to others (apart from Google) for various marketing and mining purposes [15].
Therefore, characterizing public posts and their reactions provides an important insight about the publicly visible part of G+.
We recall that the main action by individual users is to generate a  post  that may have one or more  attachments .
Each post by a user may trigger other users to react by making a  comment , indicate their interest by a  plusone  (+1) or  reshare  the post with their own followers.
To maintain the desired crawling speed for collecting activity information, we decided to only collect the timestamp for individual posts (but not for reactions to each post).
Therefore, we use the timestamp of each post as a good estimate for all of its reactions because most reactions often occur within a short time after the initial post.
To validate this assumption, we have examined the timestamp of 4M comments associated to 700K posts and observed that more than 80% of the comments occurred within the 24 hours after their corresponding post.
Temporal Characteristics of Public Activity: Having the timestamp for all the posts and their associated reactions enables us to examine the temporal characteristics of all public activity among LCC users during the entire 15 months of G+ operation until our measurement campaign started.
Figure 3(a) depicts the total number of daily posts by LCC users along with the number of daily posts that have attachments, have at least one plusone, have been reshared or have received comments.
Note that a post may have any combination of attachments, plusones, reshares and comments (i.e., these events are not mutually exclusive).
The pronounced repeating pattern in this  gure (and other similar results) is due to the weekly change in the level of activity among G+ users that is signi cantly lower during the weekend and much higher during weekdays.
The timing of most of the observed peaks in this (and other related)  gure(s) appears to be perfectly aligned with speci c events as follows8: (i) the peak on Jun 30th caused by the initial release of the system (by invitation) [3]; (ii) the peak on Jul 11th is due to users reaction to a major failure on Jul 9th when the system ran out of disk [4]; (iii) the peak on Sep 20th was caused by the public release of the system [3]; (iv) the peak on Nov
 peak on Jan 17th is caused by the introduction of new functionalities for auto-complete and adding text in photos [5,

 the peaks on May 3rd, Jun 4th and Aug 7th.
487x 105 Total With Attachments With +1 s With Comments With Reshares








 s t s o
 .
m u
 x 105 Num.
Attachments Num.
+1 s Num.
Comments Num.
Resharers








 s n o i t c a e
 .
m u









 s r e s
 e v i t c
 .
m u
 x 105 Total With Attachments With +1 s With Comments With Reshares


 (a) The num.
of daily posts, and num.
of daily posts with di erent types of re-actions


 (b) The num.
of daily attachments, plu-sones, reshares and comments.
(c) The num.
of daily active users and num.
of daily active users whose posts received each type of reaction Figure 3: Evolution of di erent aspects of public user activity during the 15 months operation of G+ (July
 Posts Attachments +1 s Comments Resharers .
f o %






 .
f o %




 Attachments +1 s Comments Resharers

 % of Posts


 % of Users

 (a) % of posts, attachments, plusones, reshares, comments associated to top x% users Figure 4: Skewness of actions and reactions contribution per user and post (b) % of attachments, plusones, re-shares, comments associated to top x% posts y a d / s n o i t c a e





 <1/7
 >1 Posts/day Figure 5: Post-rate (x axis) vs aggregate reaction rate (y axis) correlation Figure 3(a) also demonstrates that the aggregate number of daily posts has steadily increased after the  rst  ve months (i.e., the initial phase of operation).
We can observe that a signi cant majority of the posts have attachments but the fraction of posts that trigger any reaction by other users is much smaller, in addition plusones is the most common type of reaction.
Note that Figure 3(a) presents the number of daily posts with attachments or reactions but does not reveal the total daily number of attachments or reactions.
To this end, Figure 3(b) depicts the temporal pattern of the aggregate daily rate of attachments, plusones, comments and reshares for all the daily posts by LCC users, i.e., multiple attachments or reactions to the same post are counted separately.
This  gure paints a rather di erent picture.
More speci cally, the total number of comments and in particular plusone reactions have been rapidly growing after the initial phase.
Figure 3(b) illustrates that individual posts are more likely to receive multiple plusones than any other type of reaction, and its comparison with Figure 3(a) shows that most post have one or two attachments.
Figure 3(c) plots the temporal pattern of user-level activity by showing the daily number of active LCC users along with the number of users for whom their posts have attachments or triggered at least one type of reaction.
This  gure reveals that the total number of users with a public post has been steadily growing (after the initial phase) roughly at the rate of 3K users per day.
However, this rate of growth in active users is signi cantly (roughly 60 times) lower than the rate of growth of LCC users which means only a very small fraction of new LCC users (< 2%) ever become active.
While a large fraction of these users create posts with attachments, the number of daily users whose posts trigger at least one plusone, comment or reshare has consistently remained below 1M, 0.5M and 0.25M, respectively, despite the dramatic growth in the number of LCC users.
Skewness in Activity Contribution: We observed that a relatively small and stable number of users with interesting posts receive most reactions.
This raises the question that  how skewed are the distribution of generated posts and associated reactions among users in G+? .
Figure 4(a) presents the fraction of all posts in our activity dataset that are generated by the top x% of LCC users during the life of G+ (the x axis has a log-scale).
Other lines in this  g-ure show the fraction of all attachments, plusones, comments and reshares that are associated with the top x% users that receive most reactions of each type.
This  gure clearly demonstrates that the contribution of the number of posts and the total number of associated attachments across users is similarly very skewed.
For example, the top 10% of users contribute 80% of posts.
Furthermore, the distribution of contribution of received reactions to a user s posts is an order of magnitude more skewed than the contribution of total posts per user.
In particular, 1% of users receive roughly 80% of comments and 90% of plusones and reshares.
These  ndings o er a strong evidence that only a very small fraction of users (around 1M) create most posts and even a smaller fraction of these users receive most reactions from other users to their posts, i.e., both user action and reaction are centered around a very small fraction of users.
We also repeated a similar analysis at the post level to assess how











 Posts/Day
 Twitter Facebook

 t s o p t s a l e c n s s y a
 i






 Twitter








 <1/7 1/7 1 >1 <1/7 1/7 1 >1 <1/7 1/7 1 >1 Posts/Day







 Facebook



 Num.
Public Attributes (a) Avg.
Post/Tweet rate (b) Recency of Activity Figure 6: Comparison of activity metrics for G+, Twitter and Facebook Figure 7: Distribution of number of public attributes for G+ and Facebook skewed are the number of reactions to individual posts.
Figure 4(b) shows the fraction of attachments, plusones, comments and reshares associated to the top x% posts.
The distribution for attachments is rather homogeneous which indicates that most posts have one or small number of attachments.
For other types of reactions, the distribution is roughly an order of magnitude less skewed that the distribution of reaction across users (Figure 4(a)) .This is a rather expected result since reactions tend to spread across di erent posts by a user.
Correlation Between User Actions and Reactions: Our analysis so far has revealed that actions and reactions are concentrated on a small fraction of LCC users.
However, it is not clear whether users who generate most of the posts are the same users who receive most of the reactions.
For example, a celebrity may generate a post infrequently but receives lots of reaction to each post.
To answer this question,  rst we examine the correlation between the number of posts and the aggregate reaction rate for di erent groups of users grouped based on their average level of activity as follows: Active users who post at least once a day (>1), Regular users who post less than once a day but more than once a week ( 1 Casual users who post less than once a week (< 1 7 1), and
 Figure 5 shows the summary distribution of daily reaction rate among users in each one of the described groups using boxplots.
This  gure reveals that the reaction rate grows exponentially with the user posting rate.
Therefore, the small group of users that contribute most posts is also receiving the major portion of all reactions.
We have inspected the identity of the top 20 users with a largest number of public posts to learn more about them as well as those that receive a largest number of reactions.
While the analysis of the  rst group does not reveal any interesting  nding, we observe that 18 of the top 20 users attracting more reactions are related to music groups by young girls from Japan and Indonesia (e.g., nmb48, ske48, akb48, hkt48 from Japan or jkt48 from Indonesia).
All these groups are associated to the same Japanese record producer (Yasushi Akimoto) whose G+ account is also among the top

 We examine a few aspects of user activity (i.e., generating posts or tweets) among G+, Twitter and Facebook users to compare the level of user engagement in these three OSNs.
For this comparison, we leverage TW-Act and FB-Act datasets (described in Table 4) that capture activity of random users in the corresponding OSNs.
In our analysis, we only consider the active users in each OSN that make up 17%, 35%, and 73% of all users in G+, Facebook and Twitter, respectively.
Activity Rate: Figure 6(a) shows the distribution of the average activity rate per user across all active users in each OSN.
The activity rate is measured as the total number of posts or tweets divided by the time between the timestamp of a user s  rst collected action and our measurement time.
This  gure reveals the following two basic points in comparing these three OSNs: (i) the activity rate among Facebook and G+ users are more homogeneous than across Twitter users, (ii) Facebook users are the most active (with a typical rate of 0.19 posts/day) while G+ users exhibit the least activity rate (with a typical rate of 0.08 posts/day).
Recency of Last Activity: An important aspect of user engagement is how often individual users generate a post.
We can compute the recency of the last post by each active user as the time between the timestamp of the last post and our measurement time.
The distribution of this metric across a large number of active users provides an insight on how often active users generate a post.
Figure 6(b) depicts the distribution of recency of the last post across G+, Twitter and Facebook users.
We have divided the users from each OSN into three groups of casual, regular and active users based on their average activity rate (< 1
 post/day) as we described earlier.
We observe that among casual users in all three OSNs, Facebook and Twitter users typically generate posts much more frequently (i.e., have lower median recency) than casual G+ users.
Regular users in di erent OSNs exhibit the same relative order in their typical recency of last post.
Finally, for active users, it is not surprising to observe that all three OSNs show roughly the same level of recency.
Public User Attributes: We compare the willingness of users in di erent OSNs to publicly share their attributes in their pro le.
While this is not related to user activity, it is an indicator of user engagement and interest in an OSN.
Roughly 48% of all the LCC users in G+ were providing at least one extra attribute in addition to their sex in April
 in our last few LCC snapshots.
We further examine the distribution of the number of visible attributes across LCC










 Facebook Twitter















 Facebook Twitter







 Num.
Followers



 Num.
Friends
 (a) Num Followers (b) Num Friends Figure 8: Degree Distribution for di erent snapshots of G+, Twitter and Facebook users for di erent LCC snapshots and compare them with
 ble 4) in Figure 7.
We recall that there are 21 di erent attributes in Facebook pro le.
Figure 7 shows that the distribution for all LCC snapshots is identical.
Also G+ users publicly share a much smaller number of attributes compared to Facebook users.
In particular, half of the users publicly share at least 6 attributes on Facebook while less than 10% of G+ users share 6 attributes.
Twitter pro le only has 6 attributes and 3 of them are mandatory.
The examination of TW-Pro dataset shows that 69% and 13% of Twitter users share 0 and 1 non-mandatory attribute, respectively.
In short, G+ users appear to share more public and non-mandatory attributes than Twitter users but sig-ni cantly less than Facebook users.
In summary, the analysis of di erent aspects of user activity in G+ resulted in the following important points: (i) The number of active LCC users has steadily grown but roughly

 1/10th of these users receive most of the reactions of any type to their posts.
This is due to the fact that the rate of received reactions is strongly correlated with the user posting rate.
(iii) The comparison of user activity for G+ with Facebook and Twitter revealed that Facebook and Twitter users exhibit a higher rate of generating posts.
In this section, we focus on the evolution of di erent features of connectivity among LCC users over time as the system becomes more populated, and compare these features with other OSNs.
Degree Distribution: The node degree distribution is one of the basic features of connectivity.
Since G+ structure is a directed graph, we separately examine the distribution of the number of followers in Figure 8(a) and friends in Figure 8(b).
Each  gure shows the corresponding distribution across users in each one of our LCC snapshots, among Twitter users in TW-Con snapshot, and the distribution of neighbors for random Facebook users in FB-Con snapshots9.
This  gure demonstrates a few important points: First, the distributions of followers and friends for G+ users can be approximated by a power law distribution with   = 1.26 and
 Therefore, the distribution for Facebook in both  gures is the same.
s d n e i r
 .
m u
 / s r e w o l l o
 .
m u















 Number of Followers l s n o i t a e r l a n o i t c e r i d b % i
















 Number of Followers (a) #followers/#friends (b) % bidirectional relationships Figure 9: The level of imbalance and reciprocation for di erent group of users based on their number of followers.
has been reported for the degree distribution of other OSNs including Twitter [37], RenRen [34], and Flickr or Orkut [42].
Second, comparing the shape of the distribution across di erent LCC snapshots, we observe that both distributions look very similar for all LCC snapshots.
The only exception is the earliest LCC snapshot (LCC-Dec) that has a less populated tail.
This comparison illustrates that the shape of both distributions has initially evolved as the LCC became signi cantly more populated and users with larger degree appeared, and then the shape of distributions has stabilized in recent months.
Third, interestingly, the shape of the most recent distribution of followers and friends for G+ users is very similar to the corresponding distribution for Twitter users.
The only di erence appears in the tail of the distribution of number of friends which is due to the limit of 5K friends imposed by G+ [10].
The stability of the distribution of friends and followers for G+ users in recent months coupled with their striking similarity with these features in Twitter indicates that the degree distribution for G+ network has reached a level of maturity.
Fourth, while the distributions for Facebook are not directly comparable due to its bidirectional nature, Figure 8 shows that the distribution of degree for Facebook users does not follow a power law [46] as they generally exhibit a signi cantly larger degree than Twitter and G+ users.
Speci cally, 56% of Facebook users have more than 100 neighbors while only 3.6% (and 0.8%) of the G+ (and Twitter) users maintain that number of friends and followers.
Balanced Connectivity & Reciprocation: Our examination shows that the percentage of bidirectional relationships between LCC users has steadily dropped from 32% (in Dec 2011) and became rather stable in recent months around 21.3% (in Nov 2012).
Again, we observe that this feature of connectivity among LCC users in G+ seems to have reached a quasi-stable status after the system have experienced a major growth.
Interestingly, Kwak et al.
[37] reported a very similar fraction of bidirectional relationships (22%) in their Twitter snapshot from July 2009.
This reveals yet another feature of G+ connectivity that is very similar to the Twitter network and very di erent from the fully bidirectional Facebook network.
In order to gain a deeper insight on this aspect of connectivity, we examine the fraction of bidirectional connections for individual nodes and its relation with the level of (im)balance between node inde-gree and outdegree.
This in turn provides a valuable clue about the user level connectivity and reveals whether users
 of balance in the connectivity of individual nodes, Figure 9(a) plots the summary distribution of the ratio of followers to friends (using boxplots) for di erent group of users based on their number of followers in our most recent snapshot (LCC-Nov).
This  gure demonstrates that only low degree nodes (with less than 100 followers) exhibit some balance between their number of followers and friends.
Otherwise, the number of friends among G+ users grows much slower than the number of followers.
We calculate the percentage of bidirectional relationships for a node u, called BR(u), as expressed in Equation 1 where Friend(u) and Follower(u) represent the set of friends and followers for u, respectively.
In essence, BR(u) is simply the ratio of the total number of bidirectional relationships over the total number of unique relationships for user u.
BR(u) = F riend(u)   F ollower(u) F riend(u)   F ollower(u)










 Twitter




 y t i l i b a b o r







 Twitter




 Hops




 Clustering Coefficient Figure 10: Clustering Coe cient Figure 11: Average Path Length LCC-Nov Path Length (Avg) Path Length (Mode) E .
Diameter Diameter



 FB Twitter

 -




(1) Table 6: Summary of path length and diameter characteristics for G+, Facebook and Twitter Figure 9(b) presents the summary distribution of BR(u) for di erent groups of G+ users in LCC the based on their number of followers using the LCC-Nov snapshot.
The results for other recent LCC snapshots are very similar.
As expected, popular users (> 10k followers) have a very small percentage of bidirectional relationships.
As the number of followers decreases, the fraction of bidirectional relationships slowly increases until it reaches around 40% for low-degree users (<
 a balanced connectivity, do not reciprocate more than 40% of their relationships.
Our inspection of 5% of LCC users who reciprocate more than 90% of their edges revealed that 90% of them maintain less than 3 friends/followers and less than 5% of them have any public posts.
These results collectively suggest that G+ users reciprocate a small fraction of their relationships which is often done by very low degree users with no activity.
Clustering Coe cient: Figure 10 depicts the summary distribution of the undirected version of the clustering co-e cient (CC) among G+ users in di erent LCC snapshots.
This  gure clearly illustrates that during the roughly one year period from Dec 2011 to Nov 2012, the CC among the bottom 90% of users remained below 0.5 and continuously decreases.
On the other hand, the CC for the top 10% of In essence, the G+ structure users has been very stable.
has become less clustered as new users joined the LCC over the one year period.
A similar trend in cluster coe cient has been recently reported for a popular Chinese OSN [49] that indicates that such an evolution in the CC might be driven by underlying social forces rather than features of the OSNs.
We also notice that the distribution of the CC among G+ users exhibits only minor changes between Aug and Nov 2012 which is another sign of stability in the connectivity features of G+ network.
Compared to Twitter network where the CC is less than 0.3 for 90% of users, G+ is still more clustered.
Furthermore, using the approximation presented in [39], we conclude that just 1% of the nodes in a complete Facebook snapshot collected in May 2011 [46] have a CC larger than 0.2 in comparison with the 16% and
 mary, as the population of G+ has grown, its connectivity has become less clustered but it is still the most clustered network compared to Twitter and Facebook.
Path Length: Figure 11 plots the probability distribution function for the pairwise path length between nodes in different LCC snapshots for G+ and a snapshot of Twitter (TW-Con).
We observe that roughly 97-99% of the pairwise paths between G+ users are between 2 to 7 hops long and roughly 68-74% of them are 4 or 5 hops.
The diameter of the G+ graph has increased from 17 hops (in April) to 22 hops (in November of 2012).
The two visibly detectable changes in this feature of the G+ graph as a result of its growth are: a small decrease in typical path length (from April to November) and the increase of its diameter in the same period.
Table 6 summarizes the average and mode path length, the diameter and the e cient diameter [38] (i.e., 90 percentile of pairwise path lengths) for the G+ network (using LCC-Nov), Twitter (using TW-Con) and a Facebook snapshot from [23].
We observe that G+ and Facebook exhibit similar average (and mode) path length but Facebook has a longer diameter.
One explanation is the fact that the size of Facebook network is roughly one order of magnitude larger than G+ LCC.
Twitter has the shortest average and mode path length and diameter among the three.
We conjecture that this di erence is due to the lack of restriction in the maximum number of friends that leads to many shortcuts in the network as Twitter users connect to a larger number of friends.
Relating User Activity & Connectivity: We also analyzed the correlation between the connectivity and activity of individual users in the LCC.
Our results reveal a strong positive correlation between the popularity of a user (i.e., number of followers) and the user s post rate.
The post rate of individual users exhibit a weaker correlation with the number of friends.
Further details on all of our analysis can be found in our related technical report [31].
In summary, our analysis on the evolution of LCC connectivity led to the following key  ndings: (i) As the size of LCC signi cantly increased over the past year, all connectivity features of LCC have initially evolved but have become rather stable in recent months despite its continued growth.
(ii) Only low degree and nonactive users may reciprocate a moderate fraction of their relationships.
(iii) Many key features of connectivity for G+ network (e.g., degree distribution, fraction of bidirectional relationships) have striking similarity with the Twitter network and very di erent from
 tively suggest that G+ is primarily used for message propagation similar to Twitter rather than pairwise users interactions similar to Facebook.
OSN characterization: The importance of OSNs has motivated researchers to characterize di erent aspects of the most popular OSNs.
The graph properties of Facebook [46,
 carefully analyzed.
Note that all these studies use a single snapshot of the system to conduct their analysis, instead we analyze the evolution of the G+ graph over a period of one year.
In addition, some other works leverage passive (e.g., click streams) [24, 45] or active [48, 32] measurements to analyze the user activity in di erent popular OSNs.
These papers are of di erent nature than ours since they use smaller datasets to analyze the behaviour of individual users.
Instead, we use a much larger dataset to analyze the evolution of the aggregate public activity along time as well as the skewness of the contribution overall activity across users in G+.
Finally, few works have also analyzed users  information sharing through their public attributes in OSNs such as Facebook [41].
Evolution of OSN properties: Previous studies have separately studied the evolution of the relative size of the network elements for speci c OSNs (Flickr and Yahoo 360) [36], the growth of an OSN and the evolution of its graph properties [40, 22, 49, 28, 29, 43] or the evolution of the interactions between users [34] and users  availability [25].
In this paper, instead of looking at a speci c aspect, we perform a comprehensive analysis to study the evolution of di erent key aspects of G+ namely, the system growth, the representative of the di erent network elements, the LCC connectivity and activity properties and the level of information sharing.
Google+ Characterization: G+ has recently attracted the attention of the research community.
Mango et al. [39] use a BFS-based crawler to retrieve a snapshot of the G+ LCC between Nov and Dec 2011.
They analyze the graph properties, the public information shared by users and the geographical characteristics and geolocation patterns of G+.
[44] leverage Google s site-maps to gather Schiberg et al.
G+ user IDs and then crawl these users  information.
In particular, they study the growth of the system and users connectivity over a period of one and a half months between Sep and Oct 2011.
Unfortunately, as acknowledged by the authors the described technique was anymore available after Oct 2011.
Furthermore, the authors also analyze the level of public information sharing and the geographical properties of users and links in the system.
Finally, Gong et al.
[30] use a BFS-based crawler to obtain several snapshots of the G+ LCC in its  rst 100 days of existence.
Using this dataset the authors study the evolution of the main graph properites of G+ LCC in its early stage.
Our work presents a broader focus than these previous works since in addition to the graph topology and the information sharing we also analyze (for  rst time) the evolution of both the public activity and the representativeness of the di erent network elements.
Furthermore, our study of the graph topology evolution considers a 1 year window between Dec 2011 and Nov 2012 when the network is signi cantly larger and presents important di erences to its early status that is the focus of the previous works.
In another interesting, but less related work, Kairam et al.
[35] use the complete information for more than 60K G+ users (provided by G+ administrators) and a survey including answers from 300 users to understand the selective sharing in G+.
Their results show that public activity represents 1/3 of the G+ activity and that an important fraction of users make public posts frequently.
Finally, other papers have studied the video telephony system of G+ [47], the public circles feature [27] and the collaborative privacy management approaches [33].
This paper examines the key features of G+ network and their evolution during the  rst year of G+ operation.
We conduct large scale measurement on G+ and collect some of the largest public datasets on any OSN to date to characterize connectivity, activity and information sharing across G+ users along with their evolution over a one year period.
We develop an e cient technique to collect random samples of G+ user.
This in turn enables us to determine the relative size of key components (i.e.LCC, partitions, singletons) of G+ network.
We show that while the size of LCC component of G+ has grown at a high rate (200K user per day), the relative size of LCC has decreased with time.
Our investigations reveal that a signi cant fraction of new G+ users appear to be implicitly added by Google while they register for other Google services.
Furthermore, the main connectivity features of LCC have become relatively stable in recent months which suggests that the G+ network has reached a steady state.
We show that these stable connectivity features of LCC component of G+ have a striking similarity with Twitter but are very di erent from Facebook.
This similarity indicates that users use G+ for message propagation similar to Twitter rather than pairwise user interaction like Facebook.
In terms of user activity, even LCC users are not actively engaged in G+ network.
The contribution of user activity in terms of posting is skewed among LCC users (i.e.10% of users are responsible for 80% of posts) and user reactions to activities is an order of magnitude more skewed (i.e.1% of users generate 80% of reactions to all posts).
Our  ndings collectively demonstrate that in the current OSN marketplace with two dominant players, namely Facebook and Twitter, a new OSN such as G+ might be able to attract a rather signi cant number of users to become part of the network (i.e.connect to its LCC).
However, it is much more challenging to get these users meaningfully engaged in the system.
The authors would like to thank anonymous reviewers for their valuable feedback as well as Meeyoung Cha, Sue Moon, Diego Saez and Haewoon Kwak for sharing information from their datasets with us.
This work has been partially supported by the European Union through the FP7 TREND (257740) and eCOUSIN (318398) Projects and the TWIRL (ITEA2-Call 5-10029) Project, the Spanish Gover-ment throught the MINECO eeCONTENT Project (TEC2011-

DIANET project (S-2009/TIC-1468), the Social Networks Chair of Institut-Mines Telecom SudParis and the National Science Foundation under Grant IIS-0917381.
