Given two competing products like iPhone/Android or Blu-ray/HD-DVD, and  word of mouth  adoption of them, what will happen in the end?
This question is of interest in numerous settings.
For example, in a biological virus setting, we have the common  u versus avian  u.
In a computer virus setting, clever virus authors make sure that their code eliminates most other computer viruses from the victim s disk.
The list continues, with competing scienti c theories, competing memes ( coke  vs  soda  vs  pop ), and many more.
Our main result is that we answer the above question analytically, and we show that  winner takes all  (WTA), or, more accurately, the weaker product/virus will soon become extinct.
The fate of the stronger virus depends on its strength: below the epidemic threshold (more details, later), it will also become extinct, but above that it has good Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Committee (IW3C2).
Distribution of these papers is limited to classroom use, and personal use by others.
(a) Simulations (b) Facebook vs Myspace Figure 1: (a) Number of infected vs time for simulations on the AS-OREGON network for a virus propagating in isolation (brown square) - note that it is above the epidemic threshold and hence doesn t die out, and the same virus competing with an even stronger virus (green) - note that it now dies-out completely (red).
(b) Winner takes all in search interest data from Google-Insights for Facebook (green) and Myspace (red).
Even though Myspace got a head-start, Facebook wiped it out.
chances of lingering practically for ever.
In more detail, we assume (a) an SIS-like model (no immunity, like  u), (b) perfect mutual immunity (a node can have at most one of the viruses/products, at any given time), (c) the underlying network is connected (every node can reach every other node) (d) the network is  fair-play , in the sense that all nodes have the same behavior towards the two competing products/viruses: everybody has the same probability  1 of getting infected with virus-1 by a sick neighbor, and similarly for virus-2, and for the recovery times.
One of the main contributions is that our theoretical analysis holds for any graph topology, while earlier work focuses only on speci c-topology graphs (cliques, random, etc).
Figure 1(a) gives an illustration of our result: it shows the number of infected nodes vs time for computer simulations on the AS-OREGON network (see Section 5 for details) for a  above-threshold  virus propagating in isolation (brown square) in one case and the virus competing with an even stronger virus (green) in another case.
Clearly it is wiped out during the competition, although it gave a  ght (red, note the bump).
Note that though both the viruses are above the threshold, the weaker virus is wiped out.
We prove this result for arbitrary underlying networks in this paper.
Figure 1(b) shows the time evolution of search-interest for
 came from Google-Insights.
Notice that again, the weaker competitor is extinct (or close to that).
We will give more case-studies later in Section 5.
The outline of the paper is as follows: we review related work in   2 and formulate the problem giving details of our model in   3.
We give the analysis and proof of our WTA result in   4 while we demonstrate it using simulations and real case-studies in   5.
Finally, we discuss some subtle issues in   6 and conclude in   7.
We present the related work in this section, which can be categorized into three parts: epidemic thresholds, information di usion and ecology.
Most of these works either consider only single virus models or typically use only simulation or analyze on very restricted underlying networks.
Epidemic Thresholds Much research in virus propagation has been devoted to studying the so-called epidemic threshold, that is, to determine the condition under which an epidemic will not break out.
Widely-studied epidemiological models include the so-called homogeneous models [4, 26, 3], which assume that every individual has equal contact to others in the population.
While earlier works [20, 28] focus on some speci c types of graph structure (e.g., random graphs, power-law graphs, etc), Chakrabarti et al. [9] and Ganesh et al. [11] found that, for the  u-like SIS model, the epidemic threshold for any arbitrary graph depends on the leading eigenvalue of the adjacency matrix of the graph.
Prakash et.
al. [30] further discovered that the leading eigenvalue and a model-dependent constant are the only parameters that determine the epidemic threshold for almost all virus propagation models.
However, all of these works focus on single virus models.
Information Di usion There is also a lot of research interest in studying other types of information dissemination processes on large graphs, including (a) information cascades [6, 12], (b) blog propagation [24, 14, 22, 31], and (c) viral mar keting and product penetration [23].
Broadly two classes of information cascade models have been proposed (a) independent cascade (IC) [19] (essentially a  SIR  model) and (b) linear threshold (LT) [13].
Research work in multiple cascades has looked into extensions of the IC model with the restriction that nodes can t switch from one competitor to the other [5, 21].
One of the few works to consider switching between the competitors is Pathak et.
al. [29].
However, their work di ers from ours in several important aspects, as they: (a) use the LT model, as opposed to the  u-like  SIS model (a cascade style model) we use; (b) assume that nodes may randomly switch between products; (c) do not  nd WTA phenomena; and (d) give no closed-form results only an algorithm to compute the steady state.
Ecology In ecology, the principle of  competitive exclusion  espouses that two species can not occupy the same ecological niche in the long term.
Research has gone into studying this using various propagation models like SIS, SIR, Lotka-Volterra [7, 8, 1, 2].
They typically did simulations, or only studied homogenous or structured topologies like cliques.
Distinguishing features of current work: In short, none of the previous work ful lls all the conditions of this current work: (a) analytical proof of  WTA  (b) in arbitrary topolo-gies (c) under a SIS-like model.
In this section, we formulate our problem, giving details about the model used and the assumptions.
Table 1 explains the terminology we have used in the paper.
Bold letters typically denote matrices (A, C etc.)
or vectors (  P,  u etc.
).
Symbol

  1(or  2)  1(or  2)
  M  1(M)    1  2
 N E(i)

 diag(  P) Table 1: Terms and Symbols the underlying De nition and Description Winner-Takes-All our competing viruses model attack rate of virus 1 (or virus 2) cure rate of virus 1 (or virus 2) adjacency matrix of graph set of eigenvalues of the matrix M largest eigenvalue of matrix M  1(A)  1/ 1 (strength of virus 1)  2/ 2 (strength of virus 2) transpose of M set of neighbors of node i in the graph identity matrix of appropriate size all-zeros matrix of appropriate size the diagonal matrix with elements of vector  P in the diagonal
  1  1
  2  2
 Figure 2: State Diagram for a node in the graph under our SI1I2S competing viruses model.
The node is in the S state if it doesn t have either competitor (say iPhone or Android).
It is in I1 if it gets the iPhone (virus 1) and is in I2 if it gets the Android (virus 2).
The transitions from S to I1 or I2 (red-curvy arrows) depend on the infected neighbors of the node.
The remaining transitions, in contrast, are self-transitions, without the aid of any neighbor.
We assume that the competing viruses are spreading on the network according to a propagation model, which we describe next.
We call our propagation model SI1I2S, based on the popular  u-like  SIS (Susceptible-Infected-Susceptible) model [16].
SI1I2S denotes Susceptible - Infected1 - Infected2 - Susceptible.
Each node in the graph can be in one of three states: Susceptible (healthy), I1 (infected by virus 1), or I2 (infected by virus 2).
The state transition diagram as seen from a node in the network is shown in Figure 2.
We could have extended other single virus models as well, but we believe that our model is a reasonable starting point, and we leave the analysis of other models as future work.
I1 (or I2), it recovers on its own with rate  1 (or  2).
This implies that the time taken for each infected node to heal is exponentially distributed with parameter  1 (or  2).
This parameter captures the persistence of the virus in an inverse way: a high   means low persistence.
For example, a very convincing rumor that sticks to one s mind will be modeled with a low   value.
Attack (virus transmission) rate:  .
A healthy node gets infected by infected neighbors, and the virus transmiss-ability is captured by  1 and  2.
Speci cally, an infected node transmits its infection to each of its neighbors independently at rate  1 (or  2).
Hence, the time taken for each infected node to transmit the virus to a neighbor over a link is exponentially distributed with parameter  1 (or  2).
This is a novel generalization of the single-virus SIS model to a competing-viruses scenario.
Note the competition between the viruses: each virus has to compete with the other for healthy victims.
Moreover, note that we assume full mutual immunity: while a node is infected by one virus, it cannot be infected by the other.
Fair-play: We assume that the competitors are playing a  fair game : All nodes in the network have the same model parameters ( s and  s) for each of the viruses and behave according to the state-diagram in Figure 2.
We are now in a position to state the problem formally.
We assume the underlying network is connected - otherwise we just have separate disconnected problems.
Competing viruses problem Given: A undirected connected graph G, and the propagation model (SI1I2S) parameters ( 1,  1 for virus 1,  2,  2 for virus 2) Find : What will happen at the end i.e. what are the steady-state populations of the two viruses.
We prove our winner-takes-all (WTA) result on an arbitrary undirected graph in this section.
Our main result can be formally stated as follows: Theorem 1 (Winner takes all).
Given an arbitrary undirected, connected graph with adjacency matrix A and the SI1I2S model parameters ( 1,  2,  1,  2), then virus 1 will dominate and virus 2 will completely die-out in the steady state if virus 1 is above threshold1 and the strength of virus 1 is greater than the strength of virus 2 i.e. if  1 > 1 and  1 >  2.
The proof is involved, and we present it in the next few pages.
We will  rst prove it for simpler cases of the underlying network - namely a clique and a barbell before we move on to arbitrary graphs.
In short, the proof has the following steps:
 cal system of di erential equations for the propagation process,
 out unless it is above the epidemic threshold i.e. unless  /  > 1 [30], where   is the largest eigenvalue of the adjacency matrix of the underlying graph.
points and at least one of the viruses has to die out at any  xed point, and
 each  xed point to be stable (attracting).
Intuitively, the dynamical system generates a  eld on which we show that only 3 possible  xed points can exist.
Moreover the  eld makes only one of the possible  xed points stable under any given scenario.
Figures 3(a-c) shows the  eld-plots in a simple case - when the underlying graph is a clique2 of size N = 1000.
Speci cally we show three scenarios (wlog, we assume the  rst virus is the stronger virus): BELOW : 1 >  1N/ 1 = 0.6 >  2N/ 2 = 0.2 (both viruses below the threshold) MIXED :  1N/ 1 = 6 > 1 >  2N/ 2 = 0.2 (one above and one below the threshold) ABOVE :  1N/ 1 = 6 >  2N/ 2 = 4 > 1 (both above the threshold) The  eld plots illustrate the  xed points in this setting and their stability.
In this case, we have a 2-dimensional  eld, but for an arbitrary graph it will depend on the number of nodes in the graph.
At any point on the  eld, the direction of the  eld-arrow tells us where the system will go next.
Stable  xed points are marked by bold circles, unstable  xed points by hollow circles, x-axis denotes the # of infected nodes by virus 2 and the y-axis denotes the # infected by virus
 viruses are above threshold, yet the F P1 and F P3 points are unstable while the other  xed point corresponding to the stronger virus winning (F P2) is stable.
The trajectory of the simulation is overlaid on the  eld plots - we can see that the system follows the  eld lines and is attracted towards and ends up at the stable  xed point in the steady state.
We also show the time-evolution separately in Figures 3(d-f) especially note part (f) (ABOVE), virus 2 tries to take over, but is overpowered by virus 1 which goes on to dominate.
We can similarly observe the BELOW and MIXED scenarios as well.
We elaborate a bit more on the steps next.
Consider a dynamical system (set of di erential equations) of the form x(cid:48) = F (x), where x(cid:48) is the (component-wise) time derivative of x, and F : Rn   Rn is continuous and di erentiable.
If F (x0) = 0, then x0 is a stationary point (also called a  xed point).
The proof begins by setting up the propagation as a dynamical system of nonlinear di erential equations and then analyzes the possible  xed points and their stability conditions.
In principle, one might expect that there might be several  xed points of the system corresponding to di er-ent proportions of the populations of the two virus.
But we prove that in fact there are always only three  xed points possible and in each at least one virus gets wiped-out.
Further, intuitively, if a  xed point is not stable then the system would be repelled whenever it tries to approach that  xed point.
Hence, to fully characterize the  xed points, we need to derive the stability conditions, which give us the conditions for each of these  xed points to be stable and attracting.
For characterizing the stability of the  xed points, we use a well-known result from dynamical system theory (c.f.
[17]).
The  xed points will be a hyperbolic  xed point (i.e. where 2every node is connected to every other node.
(b) MIXED (Field-plot) (c) ABOVE (Field-plot) (d) BELOW (Time-plot) (e) MIXED (Time-plot) (f) ABOVE (Time-plot) Figure 3: (ac) Field plots for clique of size 1000 for various cases.
Stable  xed points are marked by bold circles, unstable  xed points by hollow circles, while the y-axis denotes the number of infected nodes by virus
 plots illustrate the  xed points in this setting and their stability.
(d-f ) Corresponding Time evolution plots of the competition.
Note that virus 2 (red curve) in (f ) could have won in isolation, but lost to virus 1.
(cid:111) (cid:111)

 I1   N    1 I2   N    2  1

  2 (i.e. only virus 1 survives) (i.e. only virus 2 survives) Stability Conditions The corresponding Jacobians at the  xed points are: (cid:110) (cid:110)









 (cid:20) N  1    1 (cid:16) (cid:34)  1 +  1 (cid:34)  1 +  1 2 (cid:16)  2 N    2  2 (cid:21)
  1 N    1 N  2    2

 (cid:16) (cid:17)  2 +  2 (cid:111) (cid:111) (cid:111) ),  2(N    2 )    2    1  2  1  2  2 ) )  2  1  1  1(N    1  1(  1  1  1(  2  2   N ),  2(  1   N ),  2(  2 (cid:16) (cid:17)(cid:17)  1 (cid:16) (cid:16)

  1  2 1 N    1    2  1 N    2  2 (cid:17) (cid:35) (cid:17)(cid:17) (cid:35) The eigenvalues of the Jacobians can be seen to be: the linearized stability analysis can be performed) only when none of the eigenvalues of the corresponding Jacobian3 has a zero real part.
Further, the system will be stable at a hyperbolic  xed point (attractor) only if the real part of the eigenvalues of the Jacobian is negative.
So to make a  xed point a hyperbolic stable attractor we need to impose the condition that the real parts of all the eigenvalues of the corresponding Jacobian should be negative.
We next show this proof scheme for the special case of a clique topology.
In a clique, all nodes are connected to each other with undirected and unweighted edges.
Each node is identical to the other and hence our system is a simple continuous time markov chain, due to which we can write down the system equations directly.
Let N be the size of the clique and I1 be the number of nodes infected by virus 1 at some time t.
Similarly de ne I2.
Dynamical System: Clearly, under our SI1I2S model, we have the following system equations: dI1 dt dI2 dt =  1(N   I1   I2)I1    1I1 =  2(N   I1   I2)I2    2I2 Fixed Points There are three  xed points of the system of di erential equations above (when the rates of change in I1 and I2 are zero):

 order partial derivatives of x(cid:48) with respect to x evaluated at the  xed point.
From our preceding discussion we know that to have stable  xed points we require that the real part of the eigenvalues of the Jacobians should be negative.
Clearly the corresponding conditions for the  xed point to be (a) hyperbolic and (b) stable attractor are:
  1 < 1 and  2N  2 < 1 (i.e. both are below threshold)
  1 > 1 and  1N  1 >  2N  2 (i.e. virus 1 is above threshold and virus 1 strength is greater than virus 2)
  2 > 1 and  2N  2 >  1N  1 (i.e. virus 2 is above threshold and virus 2 strength is greater than virus 1) Firstly note that we recover a result similar to the single-virus SIS model case - that if the viruses are below the epidemic threshold, they both die-out.
Secondly, we can conclude that in case of a clique, the stronger virus wipes-out the weaker virus if it is above the epidemic threshold.
Non-hyperbolic  xed points: We can see that the  xed points will be non-hyperbolic if the virus strengths are equal.
Hence, in this case, no conclusions can be drawn from the linearized analysis and we take a di erent route.
Note that we always have:(cid:90) I1 (cid:90) t (cid:90) I2

 (cid:90) t
 dt =

 + dI1  1I1   I  2
 I  1

  1  1

 2 ) 1 1 ) 2 dI2  2I2 +  2  2 dt (1) = e 1 2(  2  2    1  1 )t (2)
 where I 0
 R.H.S.
will evaluate to one in our case (the virus strengths are equal).
Hence now, the ratio of virus populations at any given time t will be directly proportional to the initial ratio (up to some exponents).
Also, clearly, the maximal ratios are attained at one of the last two  xed points.
A barbell graph G has two cliques (say clique C1 and C2 of size N each) connected through weak edges.
Speci cally, we assume that all nodes in C1 are connected to all nodes in C2 (and vice versa) with edges of weight , whereas they are connected with nodes within the same clique with edges of weight 1.
In this case, by symmetry we can see that the virus populations in both the cliques should remain the same at the steady state.
If we follow the steps in the case of a single clique, we get at steady state:  1(N   I1   I2)I1(1 + ) =  1I1  2(N   I1   I2)I2(1 + ) =  2I2 (cid:110) (cid:110) Hence, the only possible  xed points are:

  1 (cid:111)  1 (1+) , I2   0 (cid:111)  2 (1+) , I1   0  2
 vives)
 vives)
 (i.e. only virus 1 sur-(i.e. only virus 2 sur-Moreover, continuing similarly as the single clique case, we can see that the stronger virus again wipes-out the weaker virus as long as it is above the epidemic threshold (note that in this case   = (1 + )N , hence the threshold condition for a single virus is (1 + ) N/  > 1).
Let A be the adjacency matrix of the arbitrary graph of N nodes.
Let pi,1 be the probability of node i to be in the I1 state.
Similarly de ne pi,2 and si is the probability of node i being in the susceptible state.
Clearly, si + pi,1 + pi,2 = 1.
Dynamical System: As we have a continuous time process, the following system equations hold for each node i: dpi,1 dt dpi,2 dt =  1pi,1 +  1(1   pi,1   pi,2) =  2pi,2 +  2(1   pi,1   pi,2) (Aij1j,1) (Aij1j,2) (cid:88) (cid:88) j j (cid:88) (cid:88) j j where 1j,k (for k = 1, 2) is the indicator random variable denoting if node j is infected with virus k. Our system is not a markov chain due to the presence of random variables
 approximation (1j,1   E[1j,1] = pj,1 and 1j,2   pj,2, where E[X] is the expected value of the random variable X), we get the following dynamical system: dpi,1 dt dpi,2 dt =  1pi,1 +  1(1   pi,1   pi,2) =  2pi,2 +  2(1   pi,1   pi,2) (for each node i).
(Aijpj,1) (3) (Aijpj,2) (4) (cid:88) (cid:88) j Fixed Points: At the steady state i.e. at  xed points where the change in probabilities will be zero, we get (for each node i):  1pi,1 =  1(1   pi,1   pi,2)  2pi,2 =  2(1   pi,1   pi,2) which can be written in vector-form as: j  1SA  P1 =  1  P1  2SA  P2 =  2  P2 (Aijpj,1) (Aijpj,2) (5) (6) (7) (8) where  P1 = [p1,1, p2,1, .
.
.
, pN,1]T ,  P2 = [p1,2, p2,2, .
.
.
, pN,2]T and S = diag(si) = I   diag(  P1 +  P2).
In all of the following analysis, we assume we are operating at  xed point unless stated otherwise, i.e. Equations 5 and
 assume that A is connected.
First we have the following series of lemmas.
Lemma 1.
  i we have that si (cid:54)= 0.
Proof.
If si = 0 for any i, then Equations 5 and 6 immediately imply that pi,1 = pi,2 = 0 which contradicts si + pi,1 + pi,2 = 1.
Lemma 2.
If   i pi,1 = 0     i pi,1 = 0.
Similarly   i pi,2 = 0     i pi,2 = 0.
(cid:80) Proof.
If   i pi,1 = 0, then from Equation 5 we have j(Aijpj,1) = 0 (as si (cid:54)= 0 from Lemma 1).
Clearly, Aij s are positive only for those nodes j which are neighbors of for j   N E(i) (and there is at least one such node i, i.e.
j as the graph is connected).
For these j, as pj,1 can not be negative (they are probabilities), they have to be zero so that the above is true.
Now we can apply the same argument we applied for node i in turn for all the neighbors j   N E(i) and so on.
Finally we get that   i pi,1 = 0 as the graph is connected.
We can prove similarly for pi,2.
Lemma 3.
The matrix SA is non-negative and irreducible.
From Lemma 1 we have that S is a diagonal positive matrix.
Clearly, it follows that S   A maybe asymmetric but it is a non-negative and irreducible matrix (intuitively, multiplying by S preserves the original edges in A).
Lemma 4.
The matrix SA has a unique positive real number (say  ) as its largest eigenvalue (in magnitude).
Further the algebraic multiplicity of   is 1 and it has a positive eigen-vector (say  v: then all components of  v are positive).
Proof.
As SA is non-negative and irreducible (Lemma 3), we can apply the Perron-Frobenius theorem [25].
The lemma follows directly then.
Lemma 5.
There are no positive eigenvectors of SA other than  v (the Perron eigenvector of SA corresponding to the largest eigenvalue).
Proof.
From Lemma 3, it follows that (SA)T is non-negative and irreducible as well.
Moreover, note that the eigenvalues of any matrix M and MT are the same.
Hence, again applying the Perron-Forbenius theorem to (SA)T , we have the largest eigenvalue as   and the corresponding positive eigenvector as say  u.
From the eigenvalue equation, we know that  uT SA =  uT .
Now suppose we have another positive eigenvector, say  w, corresponding to eigenvalue t of SA (so, SA  w = t  w).
Then:  uT  w =  uT SA  w = t uT  w Hence (    t) uT  w = 0.
But  uT  w (cid:54)= 0 as both  u and  w are positive.
Hence t =  .
But   has multiplicity 1 (Lemma 4) and hence  w =  v.
Lemma 6.
At  xed point,  P1 > 0 and  P2 > 0 both can not hold unless  1  1 =  2  2 .
Proof.
Together with Lemma 2, Equation 7 implies that either  P1 = 0 or it is a positive eigenvector of SA with eigenvalue  1/ 1.
Similarly from Equation 8 (and Lemma 2) we get that either  P2 = 0 or it is a positive eigenvector of SA with eigenvalue  2/ 2.
From Lemma 5, the only positive eigenvector of SA is the one corresponding to the largest eigenvalue.
Hence both  P1 > 0 and  P2 > 0 can hold only if  1  1 .
Otherwise at least one of them is zero.
=  2  2 Assuming the virus strengths are not equal, Lemma 6 implies the following theorem: Theorem 2.
Assuming the virus strengths are not equal, the system has only the following possible  xed points: (cid:111) (cid:110)  P1   0,  P2   0 (cid:110)  P1   perron eigenvector of SA,  P2   0 (cid:110)  P2   perron eigenvector of SA,  P1   0 virus 1 survives) (i.e. the viruses die-out) (cid:111) (cid:111)


 (i.e. only (i.e. only virus 2 survives) We can assert the next lemma immediately: Lemma 7.
The second and third  xed points in Theorem 2 require  1 > 1 and  2 > 1 respectively.
Proof.
In the second  xed point, virus 2 dies-out and only virus 1 survives.
Hence the system now is equivalent to a single virus operating on the whole graph under the standard  u-like SIS model.
For this we already know that the virus should be above the  epidemic threshold  if it has to survive (and not die-out exponentially quickly) [9, 30].
Hence  1/ 1 =  1 > 1 is necessary for the second  xed point.
Similarly we can prove the case for when virus 2 survives.
Stability Conditions: We  rst compute the Jacobian at each of the  xed points.
(cid:21)

  2A    2I Lemma 8.
The Jacobians at the three  xed points can be written as below.
(each Jacobian is a 2N   2N matrix, each sub-matrix block below is a matrix of size N   N ).
(cid:20)  1A    1I (cid:20)  1SA    1I    1diag(A  P1)  1diag(A  P1) (cid:20)
  1SA    1I  2diag(A  P2)  2SA    2I    2diag(A  P2) Here, in J2,  P1 is the Perron eigenvector of SA with eigenvalue  1/ 1 (i.e.
it satis es Equation 7 and is nonzero).
Similarly  P2 in J3.
 2SA    2I





 (cid:21) (cid:21) Proof.
Can be computed using standard di erentiation.
Details omitted for brevity.
Given the discussion before, we can analyze the corresponding conditions for the  xed point to be hyperbolic stable attractor.
Lemma 9.
The conditions for the  xed points to be hyperbolic and stable attractor are: 1.  1 < 1 and  1 < 1 2.  1 >  2 3.  2 >  1 Proof.
We prove the conditions for each  xed point separately below (we omit some details for brevity):
 values of the matrices M1 =  1A    1I and M2 =  2A   2I.
The real part of all the eigenvalues of these matrices will be negative if the real part of the largest eigenvalue is negative (as M1 and M2 are real and symmetric, all their eigenvalues are real).
Hence the conditions for this are  1 / 1 < 1 and  2 / 2 < 1, where   is the largest eigenvalue of A.
either the eigenvalues of matrix M1 =  1SA    1I    1diag(A  P1) or the eigenvalues of the matrix M2 =  2SA    2I.
The eigenvalues of M2 are just the eigenvalues of  2SA subtracted by  2.
From Lemma 4 and Equation 7 we know that under this  xed point, the largest eigenvalue of SA is  1/ 1.
This implies that R( SA) <  1/ 1 for any eigenvalue  SA of SA4.
Thus, R( M2 ) =  2R( SA)    2 <  2 1/ 1    2 < 0
  2 <  1, the real part of all the eigenvalues of M2 are negative.
Consider the matrix D = M1 + MT
 symmetric and so has all real eigenvalues.
Due to Lemma 4 we can apply the Perron-Frobenius theorem to SA + AS as well and deduce that its largest eigenvalue  1(SA + AS) is positive.
Further, from matrix theory [18, 15], we know that for any real non-negative matrix C,  1(C + CT )   2 1(C).
Hence 0 <  1(SA + AS)   2 1(SA) = 2 1/ 1.
Again we know from standard linear algebra [18], that  1(X + Y)    1(X) +  1(Y) if X and Y are symmetric.
Hence,  1(D)    1 1(SA + AS)   2 1   2 1 1(diag(A  P1))   2 1 1/ 1   2 1   2 1 1(diag(A  P1))    2 1 1(diag(A  P1)) < 0 as under this  xed point, diag(A  P1) is a diagonal matrix with positive entries and hence has all positive eigenvalues.
As D has all real eigenvalues,  1(D) < 0 implies that it has all negative eigenvalues.
The Lya-punov theorem [17] states that a matrix C is stable (has R( C) < 0) if CT + C has all negative eigenvalues.
Applying it to our case, we can see that matrix D having all negative eigenvalues implies that M1 is stable unconditionally under this  xed point.
Finally, as M1 and M2 both (and so J2 as well) have the real part of their eigenvalues negative under the condition  2 <  1, the  xed point is a hyperbolic stable attractor if  2 <  1.
Proved.
Lemma 9 combined with Lemma 7 allows us to conclude the following: Theorem 3.
The corresponding conditions for each of the  xed points to (a) exist, and (b) have stability (i.e. be a hyperbolic and stable attractor) are: 1.  1 < 1 and  2 < 1 (i.e. both are below threshold) 2.  1 > 1 and  1 >  2 (i.e. virus 1 is above threshold and virus 1 strength is greater than virus 2) 3.  2 > 1 and  2 >  1 (i.e. virus 2 is above threshold and virus 2 strength is greater than virus 1) Combining Theorem 2 and Theorem 3, we again have a result similar to the single virus epidemic threshold - that viruses die-out if they are below the individual epidemic threshold (i.e.
if  /  < 1).
Finally, they also imply our WTA result (Theorem 1).
We  rst brie y describe our experimental setup for the simulations as well as the case studies.
Simulations: WLOG, in our experiments, we assumed that the  rst virus is the stronger virus.
We then considered the following three cases: BELOW : 1 >  1 / 1 = 0.6 >  2 / 2 = 0.2 (both viruses below the threshold) MIXED :  1 / 1 = 6 > 1 >  2 / 2 = 0.2 (one above and one below the threshold) ABOVE :  1 / 1 = 6 >  2 / 2 = 4 > 1 (both above the threshold) We used the following real-world and synthetic network datasets for the simulations:
 network graph collected from the Oregon router views.
It contains 15,420 links among 3,995 AS peers.
More information can be found from http://topology.eecs.
umich.edu/data.html.
contact graphs, representing a synthetic population of the city of Portland, Oregon, USA [27], and has been used in smallpox modeling studies [10].
It is a social-contact graph containing more than 31 mil.
links (interactions) among about 1.6 mil.
nodes (people).
weak edges of weight  = 0.01 (see Section 4.3 for a description).
We implemented our competing viruses model SI1I2S as an event based discrete simulation in C++.
We randomly infect 30 nodes for each of the viruses at the start of any simulation.
All simulations were run over 1000 time steps and the plots show averaged results from 100 runs.
Case-studies: We collected historical data for  web-search interest  for various competing products from the Google-Insights website5 which aims to  provide insights into broad search patterns .
This allows us to use the data as a proxy for product sales/adoption for each product.
We used the following pairs of rival products:
 users post links to interesting memes/news articles.6
 where users add their friends and share posts, pictures etc.7
 of high-density optical media.
The full mutual immunity model doesn t describe all the above situations perfectly, but it is a very good approximation.
We understand that not all of the pairs are mutually exclusive in the strict sense e.g., people can go and put links on both Digg and Reddit, however, people are unlikely to be part of both communities as they have to choose a site while sharing content.
We demonstrate our result using (a) simulation experiments on varied datasets; and (b) case studies using real data in this section.
5www.google.com/insights/search/ 6www.reddit.com, www.digg.com 7www.facebook.com, www.myspace.com (b) MIXED (Time-plot) (c) ABOVE (Time-plot) (d) BELOW (Phase-plot) (e) MIXED (Phase-plot) (f) ABOVE (Phase-plot) Figure 4: (ac) Number of infected vs time plots for simulations on the AS-OREGON network for di erent scenarios.
(d-f ) Corresponding Phase plots (scatter plot of number of infected nodes by virus 1 (y-axis) and number of infected nodes by virus 2).
Stable  xed points are marked by bold circles, unstable by hollow circles.
Clearly, the stronger virus wins (as long as it is above threshold) and the weaker dies-out completely as our result predicted.
Figures 4 and 5 demonstrate our results.
In short, the plots agree exactly with our result, as expected.
Figure 4 shows the Time-plots and Phase-plots for simulations on the AS-OREGON graph for our three scenarios as discussed before in the setup.
The time-plots show the Number of nodes Infected vs Time for each of the viruses (red for the weaker virus, green for the stronger one).
The phase plot is the scatter plot of number of infected nodes by the stronger virus on the y-axis and number of infected nodes by the weaker virus on the x-axis.
Thus a phase plot shows the trajectory of the simulation in the 2-d plane.
The stable points in each scenario are marked with solid circles.
In the BELOW case, we expect that both of them die-out.
This is borne out by both the time and phase plots (Figures 4(a) and (d)).
Point F P1(0, 0) is the only stable  xed point in this case and hence the system converges to it very quickly (see the phase plot).
On the other hand, when the stronger virus is above threshold (MIXED) we can see that it takes-over and the other virus dies-out (Figures 4(b) and (e)).
In this case, point F P2 is stable and attracting while F P1 becomes unstable.
As a result, we converge to the steady state where only the stronger survives.
Finally, in case ABOVE, when each could have dominated in isolation, the stronger virus clearly wins and wipes-out the weaker virus (Figures 4(c) and (f)).
Here, F P2 is again stable while the other  xed points are unstable.
Moreover, note that the stronger virus reaches the same steady-state as in MIXED.
This agrees with our analysis as well (see Lemma 7): in both scenarios, the stronger virus will reach the same  xed-point as it would have if operating in isolation, without the presence of a competitor.
Similarly, Figure 5 shows the phase-plots for simulations on the other graph datasets - PORTLAND, Clique and Barbell.
For lack of space, we just show the plots for case ABOVE.
As before, the stronger virus wins and the weaker virus dies-out completely, no matter the network, in perfect agreement with our result (Theorem 1).
Figure 6 shows the historical data we collected from Google-Insights.
In short, they provide corroboration to the WTA phenomenon in real-world as well.
Figures 6(a-c) show the web-search interest vs time for the three pairs of competitors we discussed before in the setup.
Figures 6(d-f) show the corresponding phase-plots (the  nal data-point is marked by a diamond).
Firstly, as it is real data, due to various reasons they do show signi cant deviations over the smooth steady states observed from our models (e.g., the spikes in Figure 6(c) denote Christmas shopping sales).
Nevertheless, they broadly give positive evidence for the WTA result e.g., in (ab) and (d-e), even though Digg and MySpace had a head-start and even dominate for a while, the stronger product (Reddit and Facebook) eventually takes-over.
The phase plots also show the trajectories in e ect similar to the ones found in our simulations.
Clearly, in all the plots we can see that the eventual winner and dominant competitor (Reddit, Facebook, Blu-ray) almost completely wipes-out the weaker competitor, just as our result predicts.
There are several subtle points, that we deferred until now, for clarity of exposition.
Speci cally, here we discuss the following issues: Question: Explain the counterexamples, of  winner takes
 (b) Clique (c) Barbell Figure 5: Phase plots (scatter plot of number of infected nodes by virus 2 and number of infected nodes by virus 1) plots for simulations on (a) the PORTLAND network, (b) a clique and (c) a barbell graph for scenario ABOVE.
Again, stable  xed points are marked by bold circles and unstable  xed points by hollow circles (F P3 not shown in (a) for sake of clarity of the trajectory).
The weaker virus tries to dominate (note the bulge), but it dies-out completely and the stronger virus wins, as our result predicted.
all .
If  winner takes all , how come there are competing products where the weaker one still has a nontrivial market share, like  Windows ,  Mac-os  (and  Linux )?
Answer: Not  level elds ; or not enough time.
There are indeed numerous cases where two (or more) competing products or ideas, coexist.
For example, in the OS  wars , MS-windows has a large market share, with mac-OS having a smaller, but near-constant market share.
There are several settings that could cause such deviations.
  One is that we are violating our assumption of  fair-play , e.g., some nodes (like enthusiastic AppleTM fans) exhibit much lower infection probability  , or even zero for one of the viruses.
Thus by catering to just that niche where it is much stronger, the competitor can survive.
  A second cause is weak connectivity, like a barbell graph with a narrow bridge, and not enough time to reach steady-state.
  A third cause is viruses of near-equal strength.
We omit the simulation results here, but similar-strength viruses take too long to reach WTA.
This is analogous to the case of two near-equal-strength tennis players, that need several games, and several tiebreakers, before a winner emerges.
Question: Has this WTA phenomenon appeared in other settings?
Answer: Yes, with simulation results.
In epidemiology studies, WTA is referred to as  competitive exclusion  e.g.
see [7, 8, 1, 2].
However, they typically did simulations, or they only studied homogenous or very structured topologies like cliques.
Question: How about other propagation models (SIR etc)?
Will WTA, then?
Answer: We conjecture that the answer is  yes .
The full analysis for SIR (= lifelong immunity, like mumps) SIRS (= long, but not permanent, immunity) and more, are the focus of our ongoing research.
We conjecture that similar results may hold, too, extrapolating from the results of (Prakash et al. [30]): that work showed that, for a single virus, the epidemic threshold has the same form, for almost any virus propagation model.
Question: Will WTA hold, under partial mutual immunity?
Answer: Future work - no conjectures.
In this work, we assume full mutual exclusion, that is a given node will have at most one of the two viruses/products (iPhone/Android), at any given point in time, but not both.
There are marketing, and biological settings that a person may have both products/viruses.
Will WTA hold, then?
This seems like a di cult question, and left for future work.
We suspect that the answer will not be a simple  yes  or  no .
In summary, we tackled the setting of two competing products (or viruses or ideas etc.)
spreading over a network and studied the problem of what happens in the end (i.e.
in the steady state).
In addition to problem formulation and getting ecological concepts to web-like phenomena, the main contributions of our work are as follows:
 analysis of the propagation model for arbitrary graph topology, proving that the  winner-takes-all  i.e. the stronger virus dominates and wipes-out the weaker virus (if it is above threshold).
See Theorem 1.
our result using extensive simulations on real and synthetic networks showing that they match exactly with our predictions.
Moreover, using case-studies of historical data of competing products (Blu-ray/HD-DVD, Facebook/MySpace, Reddit/Digg), we provided positive evidence of WTA in real-life.
