Social in uence can play a crucial role in a range of behavioral phenomena, from the dissemination of information, to the adoption of political opinions and technologies [23, 42], which are increasingly mediated through online systems [17,  Part of this research was performed while the author was a student at the University of Michigan.
Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Committee (IW3C2).
Distribution of these papers is limited to classroom use, and personal use by others.
networks, identifying in uence remains a challenge.
Individuals tend to engage in similar activities as their peers, so it is often impossible to determine from observational data whether a correlation between two individuals  behaviors exists because they are similar or because one person s behavior has in uenced the other [5, 32, 39].
In the context of information di usion, two people may disseminate the same information as each other because they possess the same information sources, such as web sites or television, that they consume regularly [3, 38].
Moreover, homophily   the tendency of individuals with similar characteristics to associate with one another [1, 28, 34]   creates di culties for measuring the relative role of strong and weak ties in information di usion, since people are more similar to those with whom they interact often [22, 34].
On one hand, pairs of individuals who interact more often have greater opportunity to in uence one another and have more aligned interests, increasing the chances of contagion [11, 27].
However, this commonality ampli- es the potential for confounds: those who interact more often are more likely to have increasingly similar information sources.
As a result, inferences made from observational data may overstate the importance of strong ties in information spread.
Conversely, individuals who interact infrequently have more diverse social networks that provide access to novel information [12, 22].
But because contact between such ties is intermittent, and the individuals tend to be dissimilar, any particular piece of information is less likely to  ow across weak ties [14, 37].
Historical attempts to collect data on how often pairs of individuals communicate and where they get their information have been prone to biases [10, 33], further obscuring the empirical relationship between tie strength and di usion.
Confounding factors related to homophily can be addressed using controlled experiments, but experimental work has thus far been con ned to the spread of highly speci c information within limited populations [6, 13].
In order to understand how information spreads in a real-world environment, we wish to examine a setting where a large population of individuals frequently exchange information with their peers.
Facebook is the most widely used social networking service in the world, with over 800 million people using the service each month.
For example, in the United States, 54% of adult Internet users are on Facebook [26].
world contacts on the site [26], and many of these individuals regularly exchange news items with their contacts [38].
In addition, interaction among users is well correlated with self-reported intimacy [18].
Thus, Facebook represents a broad online population of individuals whose online personal networks re ect their real-world connections, making it an ideal environment to study information contagion.
We use an experimental approach on Facebook to measure the spread of information sharing behaviors.
The experiment randomizes whether individuals are exposed via Facebook to information about their friends  sharing behavior, thereby devising two worlds under which information spreads: one in which certain information can only be acquired external to Facebook, and another in which information can be acquired within or external to Facebook.
By comparing the behavior of individuals within these two conditions, we can determine the causal e ect of the medium on information sharing.
The remainder of this paper is organized as follows.
We further motivate our study with additional related work in Section 2.
Our experimental design is described in Section 3.
Then, in Section 4 we discuss the causal e ect of exposure to content on the newsfeed, and how friends  sharing behavior is correlated in time, irrespective of social in uence via the newsfeed.
Furthermore, we show that multiple sharing friends are predictive of sharing behavior regardless of exposure on the feed, and that additional friends do indeed have an increasing causal e ect on the propensity to share.
In Section 5 we discuss how tie strength relates to in uence and information di usion.
We show that users are more likely to have the same information sources as their close friends, and that simultaneously, these close friends are more likely to in uence subjects.
Using the empirical distribution of tie strength in the network, we go on to compute the overall e ect of strong and weak ties on the spread of information in the network.
Finally, we discuss the implications of our work in Section 6.
Online networks are focused on sharing information, and as such, have been studied extensively in the context of information di usion.
Di usion and in uence have been modeled in blogs [2, 20, 25], email [31], and sites such as Twitter, Digg, and Flickr [8, 21, 29].
One particularly salient characteristic of di usion behavior is the correlation between the number of friends engaging in a behavior and the probability of adopting the behavior.
This relationship has been observed in many online contexts, from the joining of Live-Journal groups [7], to the bookmarking of photos [15], and the adoption of user-created content [9].
However, as Anag-nostopoulos, et al. [4] point out, individuals may be more likely to exhibit the same behavior as their friends because of homophily rather than as a result of peer in uence.
Statistical techniques such as permutation tests and matched sampling [5] help control for confounds, but ultimately cannot resolve this fundamental problem [39].
Not all di usion studies must infer whether one individual in uenced another.
For example, Leskovec et al. [30] study the explicit graph of product recommendations, Sun et al. [41] study cascading in page fanning, and Bakshy et al. [9] examine the exchange of user-created content.
However, in all these studies, even if the source of a particular contagion event is a friend, such data does not tell us about the relative importance of social networks in information diffusion.
For example, consider the spread of news.
In Bradley Greenberg s classsic study of media contagion [24], 50% of respondents learned about the Kennedy assassination via interpersonal ties.
Despite the substantial word-of-mouth spread, it is clear that all of the respondents would have gotten the news at a slightly later point in time (perhaps from the very same media outlets as their contacts), had they not communicated with their peers.
Therefore, a complete understanding of the importance of social networks in information di usion not only requires us to identify sources of interpersonal contagion, but also requires a counterfactual understanding of what would happen if certain interactions did not take place.
Causal that relationships Figure 1: explain di usion-like phenomena.
Information presented in users  news feeds and other sharing behavior on facebook.com are observed.
External events that cause users to be exposed to information outside of Facebook cannot be observed and may explain their sharing behavior.
Our experiment blocks the causal relationship (dashed arrow) between the Facebook newsfeed and user visitation by randomly removing stories about friends  sharing behavior in subjects  feeds.
Thus, our experiment allows us to compare situations where both in uence via the feed and external correlations exist (the feed condition), to situations in which only external correlations exist (the no feed condition).
Facebook users primarily interact with information through an aggregated history of their friends  recent activity (stories), called the News Feed, or simply feed for short.
Some of these stories contain links to content on the Web, uniquely identi ed by URLs.
Our experiment evaluates how much exposure to a URL on the feed increases an individual s propensity to share that URL, beyond correlations that one might expect among Facebook friends.
For example, friends with whom a user interacts more often may be more likely to visit sites that the user also visits.
As a result, those friends may be more likely to share the same URL as the Facebook FeedStory 1Story 2...Story linking to page X...External CorrelationRegular visitation to web sitesE-Mail...User visits page X User shares page X on Facebook ObservableUnobservableInstant MessagingWWW 2012   Session: Information Diffusion in Social NetworksApril 16 20, 2012, Lyon, France520(a) (b) Figure 2: An example of the Facebook News Feed interface for a hypothetical subject who has a link (highlighted in red) assigned to the (a) feed or (b) no feed condition.
user before she has the opportunity to share that content herself.
Additional unobserved correlations may arise due to external in uence via email, instant messaging, and other social networking sites.
These causal relationships are illustrated in Figure 1.
From the  gure, one can see that all unobservable correlations can be identi ed by blocking the causal relationship between the Facebook feed and sharing.
Our experiment therefore randomizes subjects with respect to whether they receive social signals about friends  sharing behavior of certain Web pages via the Facebook feed.
Subject-URL pairs are randomly assigned at the time of display to either the no feed or the feed condition.
Stories that contain links to a URL assigned to the no feed condition for the subject are never displayed in the subject s feed.
Those assigned to the feed condition are not removed from the feed, and appear in the subject s feed as normal (Figure 2).
Pairs are deterministically assigned to a condition at the time of display, so any subsequent share of the same URL by any of a subject s friends is also assigned to the same condition.
To improve the statistical power of our results, twice as many pairs were assigned to the no feed condition.
Because removal from the feed occurs on a subject-URL basis, and we include only a small fraction of subject-URL pairs in the no feed condition, a shared URL is on average delivered to over 99% of its potential targets.
All activity relating to subject-URL pairs assigned to either experimental condition is logged, including feed exposures, censored exposures, and clicks to the URL (from the feed or other sources, like messaging).
Directed shares, such as a link that is included in a private Facebook message or explicitly posted on a friend s wall, are not a ected by the assignment procedure.
If a subject-URL pair is assigned to an experimental condition, and the subject clicks on content containing that URL in any interface other than the feed, that subject-URL pair is removed from the experiment.
Our experiment, which took place over the span of seven weeks, includes 253,238,367 subjects, 75,888,466 URLs, and

 Threats to data quality include using content that was or may have been previously seen by subjects on Facebook prior to the experiment, content that subjects may have seen through interfaces on Facebook other than feed, spam, and malicious content.
We address these issues in a number of ways.
First, we only consider content that was shared by the subjects  friends only after the start of the experiment.
This enables our experiment to accurately capture the  rst time a subject is exposed to a link in the feed, and ensures that URLs in our experiment more accurately re ect content that is primarily being shared contemporaneously with the timing of the experiment.
We also exclude potential subject-(% of subjects) Gender Female Male Unspecified Age 17 or younger


 46 or older Country (top 10 & other) United States Turkey Great Britain Italy France Canada Indonesia Philippines Germany Mexico
 feed no feed


















 Table 1: Summary of demographic features of subjects assigned to the feed (N = 160, 688, 092) and no feed (N = 218, 743, 932) condition.
Some subjects may appear in both columns.
URL pairs where the subject had previously clicked on the URL via any interface on the site at any time up to two months prior to exposure, or any interface other than the feed for content assigned to the no feed condition.
Finally, we use the Facebook s site integrity system [40] to classify and remove URLs that may not re ect ordinary users  purposeful intentions of distributing content to their friends.
The experimental population consists of a random sample of all Facebook users who visited the site between August
 a link.
At the time of the experiment, there were approximately 500 million Facebook users logging in at least once a month.
Our sample consists of approximately 253 million of these users.
All Facebook users report their age and gender, and a user s country of residence can be inferred from the IP address with which she accesses the site.
In our sample, the median and average age of subjects is 26 and 29.3, respectively.
Subjects originate from 236 countries and territories,
 summary statistics are given in Table 1, and show that subjects are assigned to the conditions in a balanced fashion.
The assignment procedure allows us to directly compare the overall probability that subjects share links they were or were not exposed to on the feed.
The causal e ect of exposure via the Facebook feed on sharing is simply the expected probability of sharing in the feed condition minus the expected probability in the no feed condition.
This quantity, known as the average treatment e ect on the treated (or alternatively, the absolute risk increase), can vary when conditioning on other variables, including the number of friends and tie strength, which are analyzed in Sections 4 and 5.
Alternatively, the di erence in probabilities can be viewed as a ratio (the relative risk ratio), which quanti es how many times more likely an individual is to share as a result of being exposed to content on the feed.
Although the assignment is completely random, subjects and URLs may di er in ways that impact our measurements.
For example, certain users may be highly active on Facebook, so that they are assigned to experimental conditions more often than other users.
If these users were to vary sig-ni cantly in terms of their information sharing propensities, such as sharing or re-sharing greater or fewer links than others, the disproportionate inclusion of these users may bias our measurements and threaten the population validity of our  ndings.
Similarly, very popular URLs may also introduce biases; they may be more or less likely to be re-shared because of their inherent appeal or more likely to be discovered independently of Facebook because of their relative popularity amongst friends.
To provide control for these biases, we use bootstrapped averages clustered by the subject or URL.
We  nd that in all of our analyses, clustering by the URL rather than the subject yields nearly identical probability estimates that have marginally wider con dence intervals, so we have chosen to present our results using means and 95% con dence intervals clustered by URL.
Risk ratios are obtained using the 95% bootstrapped con dence intervals of likelihood of shar- ing in the feed and no feed conditions.
To compute the lower bound of the ratio, we divide the lower bound of the probability of sharing in the feed condition by the upper bound for the no feed condition.
The upper bound of the ratio is computed by dividing the upper bound in the feed condition by the lower bound of the no feed condition.
The additive analog of the same procedure is used to obtain con dence intervals for probability di erences.
We  nd that subjects who are exposed to signals about friends  sharing behavior are several times more likely to share that same information, and share sooner than those who are not exposed.
To measure the relative increase in sharing due to exposure, we compute the risk ratio: the likelihood of sharing in the feed condition (0.191%) divided by the likelihood of sharing in the no feed condition (0.025%), and  nd that individuals in the feed condition are 7.37 times more likely share (95% CI = [7.23, 7.72]).
Although the probability of sharing upon exposure may appear small, it is important to note that individuals have hundreds of contacts online who may see their link, and that on average one out of every 12.5 URLs that are clicked on in the feed condition are subsequently re-shared.
Contemporaneous behavior among connected individuals is commonly used as evidence for social in uence processes (e.g.
[4, 9, 8, 15, 16, 19, 20, 25, 29, 36, 43]).
We  nd that subjects who share the same link as their friends typically do so within a time that is proximate to their friends  sharing time, even when no exposure occurs on Facebook.
Figure 3 illustrates the cumulative distribution of information lags between the subject and their  rst sharing friend, among condition with a share time of the URL in the no feed condition, sampling URLs in proportion to their relative abundances in the data.
From this set of contrasts, we  nd that the median sharing latency after a friend has already shared the content is 6 hours in the feed condition, compared to
 rank-sum test, p < 10 16).
The presence of strong temporal clustering in both experimental conditions illustrates the problem with inferring in uence processes from observations of temporally proximate behavior among connected individuals: regardless of access to social signals within a particular online medium, individuals can still acquire and share the same information as their friends, albeit at a slightly later point in time.
Classic models of social and biological contagion (e.g.
[23, 35]) predict that the likelihood of  infection  increases with the number of infected contacts.
Observational studies of online contagion [4, 9, 15, 30] not only  nd evidence of temporal clustering, but also observe a similar relationship between the likelihood of contagion and the number of infected contacts.
However, it is important to note that this correlation can have multiple causes that are unrelated to social in uence processes.
For examle, if a website is popular among friends, then a particularly interesting page is more likely to be shared by a users  friends independent of one another.
The positive relationship between the number of sharing friends and likelihood of sharing may therefore simply re ect heterogeneity in the  interestingness  of the content, which is clustered along the network: the more popular a page is for a group of friends, the more likely it is that one would observe multiple friends sharing it.
We  rst show that, consistent with prior observational studies, the probability of sharing a link in the feed condition increases with the number of contacts who have already shared the link (solid line, Figure 4a).
But the presence of a similar relationship in the no feed condition (grey line, Figure 4a) shows that an individual is more likely to exhibit the sharing behavior when multiple friends share, even if she does not necessarily observe her friends  behavior.
Therefore, when using observational data, the na ve conditional probability (which is equivalent to the probability of sharing in the feed condition) does not directly give the probability increase due to in uence via multiple sharing friends.
Rather, such an estimate re ects a mixture of internal in u-ence e ects and external correlation.
Our experiment allows us to directly measure the e ect of the feed relative to external factors, computed as either the di erence or ratio between the probability of sharing in the feed and no feed conditions (Figure 4bc).
While the di er-ence in sharing likelihood grows with the number of sharing friends, the relative risk ratio falls.
This contrast suggests that social information in the feed is most likely to in uence a user to share a link that many of her friends have shared, but the relative impact of that in uence is highest for content that few friends are sharing.
The decreasing relative e ect is consistent with the hypothesis that having multiple sharing friends is associated with greater redundancy in information exposure, which may either be caused by ho-mophily in visitation and sharing tendencies, or external in uence.
(a) (b) Figure 3: Temporal clustering in sharing the same link as a friend in the feed and no feed conditions.
(a) The di erence in sharing time between a subject and their  rst sharing friend.
(b) The di erence between the time at which a subject was  rst to exposed (or was to be exposed) to the link and the time at which they shared.
Vertical lines indicate one day and one week.
subjects who had shared a URL after their friends.
The top panel shows the latency in sharing times between the subject and their friend for users in the feed and no feed condition.
While a larger proportion of users in the feed condition share a link within the  rst hour of their friends, the distribution of sharing times is strikingly similar.
The bottom panel shows the di erences in time between when subjects shared and when they were (or would have been)  rst exposed to their friends  sharing behavior on the Facebook feed.
The horizontal axis is negative when a subject had shared a link after a friend but had not yet seen that link on the feed.
From this comparison, it is easy to see that users in the feed condition are most likely to share a link immediately upon exposure, while those who share it without seeing it in their feed will do so over a slightly longer period of time.
To evaluate how exposure on the Facebook feed relates to the speed at which URLs appear to di use, we consider URLs that were assigned to both the feed and no feed condi-share time   alter's share time (days)cumulative density0.00.20.40.60.81.0051015202530feedno feedshare time   exposure time (days)cumulative density0.00.20.40.60.81.0 5051015202530feedno feedWWW 2012   Session: Information Diffusion in Social NetworksApril 16 20, 2012, Lyon, France523(a) (b) (c) Figure 4: Users with more friends sharing a Web link are themselves more likely to share.
(a) The probability of sharing for subjects that were (feed) and were not (no feed) exposed to content increases as a function of the number sharing friends.
(b) The causal e ect of the feed is greater when subjects have more sharing friends (c) The multiplicative impact of the feed is greatest when few friends are sharing.
Error bars represent the


 Next, we examine the relationship between tie strength, in uence, and information diversity by combining the experimental data with users  online and o ine interactions.
Following arguments originally proposed by Mark Granovet-ter s seminal 1973 paper, The Strength of Weak Ties [22], empirical work linking tie strength and di usion often utilize the number of mutual contacts as proxies of interaction frequency.
Rather than using the number of mutual contacts, which can be large for pairs of individuals who no longer communicate (e.g.
former classmates), we directly measure the strength of tie between a subject and her friend in terms of four types of interactions: (i) the frequency of private online communication between the two users in the form of Facebook messages1; (ii) the frequency of public online interaction in the form of comments left by one user on another user s posts; (iii) the number of real-world coincidences captured on Facebook in terms of both users being labeled by users as appearing in the same photograph; and (iv) the number of online coincidences in terms of both users responding to the same Facebook post with a comment.
Frequencies are computed using data from the three months directly prior to the experiment.
The distribution of tie strengths among subjects and their sharing friends can be seen in Figure 5.
We measure how the di erence in the likelihood of sharing a URL in the feed versus no feed conditions varies according to tie strength.
To simplify our estimate of the e ect of tie strength, we restrict our analysis to subjects with exactly one friend who had previously shared the link.
In both conditions, a subject is more likely to share a link when her
 number of communication events the subject received from their friend.
The number of messages and comments sent, and the geometric mean of communications sent and received, yielded qualitatively similar results, so we plot only the single directed measurement for the sake of clarity.
Figure 5: Tie strength distribution among friends displayed in subjects  feeds using the four measurements.
Points are plotted up to the 99.9th percentile.
Note that the vertical axis is collapsed.
sharing friend is a strong tie (Figure 6a).
For example, subjects who were exposed to a link shared by a friend from whom the subject received three comments are 2.83 times more likely to share than subjects exposed to a link shared by a friend from whom they received no comments.
For those who were not exposed, the same comparison shows that subjects are 3.84 times more likely to share a link that was previously shared by the stronger tie.
The larger effect in the no feed condition suggests that tie strength is a stronger predictor of externally correlated activity than it is for in uence on feed.
From Figure 6a, it is also clear that individuals are more likely to be in uenced by their stronger number of sharing friends probability of sharing0.0000.0050.0100.0150.0200.0250.030123456conditionfeedno feed number of sharing friendspfeed pno feed0.0000.0050.0100.0150.0200.0250.030123456 number of sharing friendspfeedpno feed0246810123456tie strength cumulative fraction of ties in feed0.880.900.920.940.960.981.0001020304050typecomments receivedmessages receivedphoto coincidencesthread coincidencesWWW 2012   Session: Information Diffusion in Social NetworksApril 16 20, 2012, Lyon, France524(a) (b) Figure 6: Strong ties are more in uential, and weak ties expose friends to information they would not have otherwise shared.
(a) The increasing relationship between tie strength and the probability of sharing a link that a friend shared in the feed and no feed conditions.
(b) The multiplicative e ect of feed diminishes with tie strength, suggesting that exposure through strong ties may be redundant with external exposure, while weak ties carry information one might otherwise not have been exposed to.
ties via the feed to share content that they would not have otherwise spread.
Furthermore, our results extend Granovetter s hypothesis that weak ties disseminate novel information into the context of media contagion.
Figure 6b shows that the risk ratio of sharing between the feed and no feed conditions is highest for content shared by weak ties.
This suggests that weak ties consume and transmit information that one is unlikely to be exposed to otherwise, thereby increasing the diversity of information propagated within the network.
Strong ties may be individually more in uential, but how much di usion occurs in aggregate through these ties depends on the underlying distribution of tie strength (i.e.
Figure 5).
Using the experimental data, we can estimate the amount of contagion on the feed generated by strong and weak ties.
The causal e ect of exposure to information shared by friends with tie strength k is given by the average treatment e ect on the treated: ATET(k) = p(k, feed)   p(k, no feed) To determine the collective impact of ties of strength k, we multiply this quantity by the fraction of links displayed in all users  feeds posted by friends of tie strength k, denoted by f (k).
In order to compare the impact of weak and strong ties, we must set a cuto  value for the minimum amount of interaction required between two individuals in order to consider that tie strong.
Setting the cuto  at k = 1 (a single interaction) provides the most generous classi cation of strong ties while preserving some meaningful distinction between strong and weak ties, thereby giving the most in uence credit to strong ties.
Under this categorization of strong and weak ties, the estimated total fraction of sharing events that can be attributed to weak and strong ties is the average treatment e ect on the treated weighted by the proportion of URL exposures from each tie type: Tweak = ATET(0)   f (0) N(cid:88) Tstrong = ATET(i)   f (i) i=1 We illustrate this comparison in Figure 7, and show that by a wide margin, the majority of in uence is generated by weak ties2.
Although we have shown that strong ties are individually more in uential, the e ect of strong ties is not large enough to match the sheer abundance of weak ties.
Social networks may in uence an individual s behavior, but they also re ect the individual s own activities, interests, and opinions.
These commonalities make it nearly impossible to determine from observational data whether any particular interaction, mode of communication, or social environment is responsible for the apparent spread of a behavior through a network.
In the context of our study, there are three possible mechanisms that may explain di usion-like phenomena: (1) An individual shares a link on Facebook,
 sary to model the e ect of tie strength for users with multiple sharing friends, since stories of this kind only constitute 4.2% of links in the newsfeed, and their inclusion would not dramatically alter the balance of aggregate in uence by tie strength.
comments received probability of sharing0.0000.0020.0040.0060.008024681012conditionfeedno feed messages received probability of sharing0.0000.0020.0040.0060.00801234567 photo coincidences probability of sharing0.0000.0020.0040.0060.00801234 thread coincidences probability of sharing0.0000.0020.0040.0060.00802468101214 comments receivedpfeedpno feed0246810024681012 messages receivedpfeedpno feed024681001234567 photo coincidencespfeedpno feed024681001234 thread coincidencespfeedpno feed024681002468101214WWW 2012   Session: Information Diffusion in Social NetworksApril 16 20, 2012, Lyon, France525 nd that the majority of in uence results from exposure to individual weak ties, which indicates that most information di usion on Facebook is driven by simple contagion.
This stands in contrast to prior studies of in uence on the adoption of products, behaviors or opinions, which center around the e ect of having multiple or densely connected contacts who have adopted [6, 7, 14, 13].
Our results suggest that in large online environments, the low cost of disseminating information fosters di usion dynamics that are di erent from situations where adoption is subject to positive externalities or carries a high cost.
Because we are unable to observe interactions that occur outside of Facebook, a limitation of our study is that we can only fully identify causal e ects within the site.
Correlated sharing in the no feed condition may occur because friends independently visit and share the same page as one another, or because one user is in uenced to share via an external communication channel.
Although we are not able to directly evaluate the relative contribution of these two potential causes, our results allow us to obtain a bound on the e ect on sharing behavior within the site.
The probability of sharing in the no feed condition, which is a combination of similarity and external in uence, is an upper bound on how much sharing occurs because of homophily-related e ects.
Likewise, the di erence in the probability of sharing within the feed and no feed condition gives a lower bound on how much on-site sharing is due to interpersonal in uence along any communication medium.
The mass adoption of online social networking systems has the potential to dramatically alter an individual s exposure to new information.
By applying an experimental approach to measuring di usion outcomes within one of the largest human communication networks, we are able to rigorously quantify the e ect of social networks on information spread.
The present work sheds light on aggregate trends over a large population; future studies may investigate how properties of the individual, such as age, gender, and nationality, or features of content, such as popularity and breadth of appeal, relate to the in uence and its confounds.
We would like to thank Michael D. Cohen, Dean Eckles, Emily Falk, James Fowler, and Brian Karrer for their discussions and feedback on this work.
This work was supported in part by NSF IIS-0746646.
