Social tagging (aka folksonomy) is popular in Web 2.0 applications, such as Delicious, CiteULike, Last.fm, Flickr and YouTube.
In this paper, we study the recurrence dynamics of social tagging, i.e., how tags recur in folksonomies.
Speci cally, we try to answer the following questions.
How often do tags recur?
How hard is predicting tag recurrence?
What tags are likely to recur?
These questions are crucial to understanding and improving social tagging.
Although there exists some investigation on the dynamics of tag co-occurrence [1], the dynamics of tag recurrence is not well-studied.
We model the social tagging data as a time-ordered series of posts.
Each post is described by a tuple (user, item, tag-set, time) which means the user annotated the item with the tags in tag-set at the time.
Here we assume the system time is represented as an integer which is incremented by one on each post.
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s).
We use the RSDC08 dataset1 from the ECML/PKDD-
Web 2.0 service for bookmarking and sharing bibliographic references.
The dataset, after cleaning, consists of 152, 171 posts from 2, 475 users.
We consider two settings of tag recurrence: (i) individual: a tag in the given post from user u is regarded as a recurrence if it has been used by u herself before; (ii) collective: a tag in the given post from user u is regarded as a recurrence if it has been used by any user (either u herself or another user) before.
Figure 1 shows the growth of tag recurrence number.
In both individual and collective settings, the tag recurrence number increases at a fairly steady rate.
On average, among the 3.7 tags used per post, 2.8 of them are individual recurrences and 3.4 of them are collective recurrences.
That is to say, about 75% of tags have been used before individually and about 90% of tags have been used before collectively.
500k 400k 300k 200k 100k r e b m u n e c n e r r u c e r

 individual collective 100k 200k 300k 400k 500k total number Figure 1: The rate of tag recurrence.
We use the entropy of tags in the tagging history to characterize the uncertainty about tag recurrence: the larger the entropy, the harder it is to predict the next tag to be 1http://www.kde.cs.uni-kassel.de/ws/rsdc08/ 2http://www.bibsonomy.org/ as H(tag) =   (cid:2) tag p(tag) log p(tag).
In the individual setting, we calculate the conditional tag entropy given the user as H(tag|user) = H(tag, user)   H(user).
Figure 2 shows the entropy of tags over time.
Although the tag vocabulary grows with a nearly constant speed (0.3 new tags per post), the collective entropy increases very slowly to 12 bits, while the individual entropy remains almost stable at less than 8 bits.
The collective entropy of 12 bits corresponds to a perplexity of 4,096 tags, far less than the number of (distinctive) tags.
The individual entropy of 8 bits corresponds to a perplexity of 256 tags, which implies that personalisation has the potential to reduce the tag search space by more than 16 times.
) s t i b ( y p o r t n e








 individual collective r e b m u n e c n e r r u c e r r e b m u n e c n e r r u c e r individual collective individual collective frequency rank
 20k 40k 60k 80k 100k 120k 140k recency rank time Figure 2: The uncertainty of tag recurrence.
Figure 3: The likelihood of tag recurrence.
Figure 3 shows two log-log plots of tag recurrence number versus tag frequency-rank and tag recency-rank respectively.
We see that (1) more frequently used tags are more likely to recur; and (2) more recently used tags are more likely to recur.
These observations are consistent with our intuition.
Moreover, the nearly-straight lines in the above log-log plots suggest that the relationship between tag recurrence number n and frequency or recency rank r roughly follows the power law : n   1/r , where the scaling-exponent   is around 0.5 on tag frequency and around 1.0 on tag recency.
Our  ndings provide useful insights about the development of tag suggestion [2, 3] techniques etc.
Making tag suggestions based on the tagging history is feasible, because most of the tags to be used have actually been used before.
Since tags recur more in the collective tagging history than in the individual tagging history, collective tag suggestion should be able to achieve better recall than individual tag suggestion.
Making tag suggestions based on the tagging history can continue to be e ective when more and more tags are added into the system, because the entropy of tags will stay relatively small.
Since the entropy of tags is higher in the collective tagging history than in the individual tagging history, individual tag suggestion should be able to achieve better precision than collective tag suggestion.
More frequently or recently used tags should be favoured for tag suggestion, because they have higher probabilities to be reused.
Since the power law distribution scaling-exponents on tag recency are larger than those on tag frequency, tag recency is probably more useful than tag frequency for tag suggestion on our dataset.
The strong correlation between tag recurrence and tag recency also suggests that a simple but up-to-date predictive model will probably work better than a comprehensive but out-of-date model for tag suggestion.
We would like to thank Prof. Wee Sun Lee (NUS), Dr. Yee Whye Teh (UCL) and Dr. Jun Wang (UCL) for stimulating discussions.
