Vertical Search Engine (VSE) refers to the search services that target at specific kind of information, such as image, video and news search.
In recent years, VSEs have become increasingly effective in serving users with specific needs.
Unfortunately, many Web users are still unaware of these high quality vertical search resources.
For example, many users enter  Jennifer Lopez image  in generic Web search to find images of Jennifer Lopez instead of entering  Jennifer Lopez  in Image search.
Our study in the search query log of a commercial search engine reveals that the number of generic Web search queries, which have explicit or implicit vertical search intentions, can surpass the traffic of VSEs.
As more evidences, we found that 12.3% of generic Web search queries have strong image search intention and 13.1% have the news search intention.
To make the value of VSEs aware by search users, many efforts have been made by commercial search engines.
Yahoo Shortcut, Ask 3D, MSN Live and Google Universal Search, are all examples of these efforts.
However, why and how to blend the vertical search results into generic Web search are still under explored in academia.
In this paper, we propose a probabilistic model based approach as a solution to the blended search and show that the blended search can truly help general purpose search engines.
As related work, the  blended search  can be naturally considered as a meta-search problem [4].
For example, if we treat both generic Web Search and VSEs as component search engines, the blended search is to aggregate the search results from Copyright is held by the author/owner(s).
these components into a single list.
However, from the classical meta-search problem s configuration, the query log of component search engines is not available for study.
In this extended abstract, we model the blended search problem based on the conditional dependencies among queries, VSEs and all the search results.
We utilize the usage information, i.e. query log, of all the VSEs, which are not available for traditional meta-search engines, to learn the model parameters by the smoothed unigram language model.
Finally, given a user query, the search results from both generic Web search and different VSEs are ranked together by inferring their probabilities of relevance to the given query.
The main contributions of this work are, (1) through studying the belonging vertical search engines  query log of a commercial search engine, we show the importance of blended search problem; (2) we propose a novel probabilistic model based approach to explore the blended search problem; and (3) we experimentally verify that our proposed algorithm can effectively blend vertical search results into generic Web search, which can improve the MAP as much as 16% in contrast to traditional Web search without vertical search blending and 10% to some other some ranking baseline.
In this section, we show why we study blended search.
We utilize
 log of a commercial search engine as our dataset.
We study five VSEs, which are Image, Video, News, Books and RSS Feeds.
If only considering the English queries, the traffic of the five VSEs is only 1.56% of the Web search traffic.
We assume that if a VSE s name v appears as part of a query q in two special patterns, then q has the explicit intention to search in VSE v. The two patterns are  v of something  and  something v .
For example, the queries  image of Britney Spears  and  Britney Spears image  are assumed to have the explicit image search intentions.
Under this assumption, there are 2,766,937 queries (about 1%) having the explicit vertical search intentions to the 5 VSEs in the 10 days  search query log.
We can extent the vertical search engine name v to more related terms in the above assumption.
Take the image search VSE as example.
If we allow v to be any term in  image, picture, gallery, wallpaper and pic , there are 2,573,911 queries.
Note the traffic of image search is 2,106,452.
The number of Web search queries that have explicit image search intentions, have already surpassed the traffic of image search.
To do a more accurate study, we randomly sampled 2,153 generic Web search queries and ask labelers to judge the relevance between queries and search domains, which are Image, Video, News, RSS and Book.
We use 4-level labeling with  3  is  strong relevant  and  0  is  irrelevant .
The results are given in Table 1 It is interesting that 12.3% queries have strong image search intention, 8.5% have strong video search intention and 13.1% have strong news search intention.
These statistics motivated us to study the blended search.
embedded, i.e. they are very relevant among all results.
The scoring function is the relevance score of Rij from Score , ) S q ( |
 ij i Si for query q, which should be provided by search engines.
As an approximation, in this work, we define Score R S q = , ) ( | ij i exp{ } ir where ir is the ranked position of Rij in Si if it is returned by Si.
The dataset used for experiments is the 2,153 labeled queries, which is introduced in section 2.
For each of these queries, its top
 are mixed together for the labelers to rank their relevance.
A voting strategy is used to determine the data ground truth.
The evaluation metrics are Mean Average Precision (MAP) and Normalized Discount Cumulative Gain (NDCG) [3].
For comparison purpose, three baseline strategies are involved to compare with our proposed algorithm.
The first is a learning-based meta-search method, called ProFusion [2] algorithm.
The second baseline is Random Blended which merges the top results from different SEs randomly.
We also use generic Web search we crawled from the commercial search engine we used as the baseline.
The results are shown in table 2.
PM stands for our proposed approach and RB is the random results.
Table 2 verifies the significant improvement of our proposed approach.
Table 2.
Comparison with other methods




 ProFusion




 Web



 Vertical search engines (VSEs) have attracted much attention in the past decade.
However, they are not very popular yet.
This motivates the commercial search engines to blend vertical search results into generic Web search.
In this abstract, we first study the vertical search engines  query log of a commercial search engine to show the importance of blended search problem.
And then we propose a probabilistic model based approach to explore the blended search problem.
Finally we experimentally verify that our proposed algorithm can effectively blend vertical search results into generic Web search.
