For forty years, the provocative  small-world  experiments of Stanley Milgram and colleagues [17, 25, 34] have been cited as evidence that everyone in the world is connected to everyone else via  six degrees of separation.  This claim, however, can be interpreted in two very di erent ways.
The Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Committee (IW3C2).
Distribution of these papers is limited to classroom use, and personal use by others.
 rst interpretation which we call the  topological  version of the hypothesis holds only that for a randomly chosen pair of individuals, there exists with high probability a short chain of intermediaries that connects them, where  short  is usually interpreted as proportional to the logarithm of the population size [38].
The second interpretation makes a much stronger claim namely that ordinary individuals can e ectively  navigate  these short chains themselves, with every individual having only local knowledge of the social network in question [1, 2, 13, 14, 21, 26, 33, 37].
For this reason, it has been labeled the  algorithmic  small-world problem [13, 14].
Distinguishing between the topological and algorithmic interpretations of the small-world hypothesis is important because each is relevant to di erent social processes [36].
The spread of a sexually-transmitted disease along networks of sexual relations, for example, does not require that participants have any awareness of the disease, or intention to spread it; thus for an individual to be at risk of acquiring an infection, he or she need only be connected in the topological sense to existing infectives.
On the contrary, individuals attempting to  network in order to locate some resources like a new job [9] or a service provider [19] must actively traverse chains of referrals; thus must be connected in the algorithmic sense.
Depending on the application of interest, therefore, either the topological or algorithmic distance between individuals may be more relevant or possibly both together.
Given the distinct implications of topological versus algorithm connectivity, it is also important to note that the two interpretations are supported by very di erent kinds of evidence.
In recent years, hundreds of empirical studies of large-scale networks have been conducted across a number of domains, including not only social networks [8, 18, 20, 27], but also biological [12, 35, 38], technological [31,
 universal  ndings of these studies are: (1) that a majority of individuals in a given population are connected in a single  giant component ; and (2) that the typical shortest path length connecting pairs of nodes within the giant component is on the order of the logarithm of the system size.
In a recent study of a network of 180M instant messenger users (where a link is de ned as two users nominating each other as IM  buddies ), for example, Leskovec and Horvitz [20] found that users were separated by a mean of 6.6 steps and a median of 7 steps.
Taken together, therefore, these studies provide overwhelming evidence for the topological interpretation of the small-world hypothesis, con rming it hundreds to hundreds of millions), and across many substantive domains.
Empirical evidence in favor of the algorithmic small-world hypothesis that individuals can locate these paths is, however, much less conclusive [15, 36].
A handful of classic sociological case studies such as Lee s  The search for an abortionist  [19] and Granovetter s  Getting a job  [9] along with numerous anecdotal examples from the growing literature of  networking  books [24, 28, 30] suggest that in at least some circumstances individuals can indeed navigate their social networks to locate useful resources.
It is unclear, however, whether these examples provide evidence for a general  searchability  property of social networks that allows even quite ordinary individuals to perform successful social searches under routine conditions, or instead represent a collection of special cases either because the individuals in question, or their circumstances, are somehow atypical.
In recent years, a number of mathematical and simulation models [1, 2, 13, 14, 21, 26, 33, 37] have been proposed with the objective of making a theoretical case in favor of the generic searchability of social networks.
Although suggestive, these results rely on some form of simulation of the underlying social network, of the search procedure, or of both together and thus they still do not constitute direct empirical evidence for the key claim of the algorithmic small-world hypothesis, that ordinary individuals in large social networks can routinely locate short paths.
More seriously, perhaps, the models described above all tend to make certain homogeneity assumptions that treat all individuals as equivalent; hence, they have little to say about the impact on social search of well-known sources of heterogeneity and inequality in real social networks [5, 29].
Mathematical models, computer simulations, and isolated examples aside, therefore, the primary source of empirical evidence for the algorithmic small-world hypothesis continues to be that provided by small-world type experiments of the kind invented by Milgram.
How persuasive, then, are these  ndings?
As Kleinberg [13] noted in his initial formulation of the algorithmic small-world problem, the experiment conducted by Travers and Milgram [25, 34] clearly demonstrated that at least some people are able to construct short chains, comprising an average of approximately  ve intermediaries, that connect distant senders from a chosen target individual.
But as Travers and Milgram themselves emphasized, it was also the case that most of the chains that started roughly 80% in their case never reached the target.
Subsequent experiments [6, 11, 17, 22, 23, 32] have demonstrated much the same pat tern: On the one hand, chains that reach their targets tend to be short; but on the other hand, the rate of chain completion tends to be low.
In Korte and Milgram s followup study of white senders in Los Angeles attempting to reach one of 270 black targets in New York [17], the average length of completed chains was 7, but the completion rate was only
 iment, conducted by Dodds et.
al. [6], the pattern was even more striking: Completed chains were only 4 steps long, but only 0.4% of about 24,000 chains that started (a total of 384) reached their targets.
References to  six degrees of separation  [10] typically emphasize the  rst of these results that completed chains tend to be short but here we wish to emphasize the second  nd-ing that the vast majority of chains never reach their ultimate target, and therefore that most of the desired data on chain length is e ectively missing.
Determining what chain attrition tells us about the searchability of social networks is therefore the main object of this paper, which is organized as follows.
In the next section, we review the standard approach to handling chain attrition, and raise two possible objections that have not been resolved by previous studies.
In Section 3, we describe data from two recent small-world experiments, and model attrition as a function of individual and relational attributes.
In Section 4, we derive a general correction for missing data based on the classical statistical idea of importance sampling.
In Section 5 we estimate chain length distributions based on the attrition model and the importance sampling estimator.
We  nd that although the median chain length is consistent with earlier estimates, the mean is signi cantly longer than previously believed.
Finally, in Section 6, we close with a discussion of the new evidence, concluding that the usual interpretation of the small-world hypothesis requires some caveats.
The conventional wisdom regarding chain attrition in small-world experiments, initially proposed by White [39], is that message chains terminate for reasons that are unrelated either to the topology of the underlying network, or to the search process.
Rather, it is assumed that participants fail to pass on messages either because they are not su ciently motivated to do so, or else because they fail to receive them in the  rst place.
Message passing can therefore be viewed as a stochastic process that takes place on some network, where the only parameter governing the success of a search is the probability of termination at each step.1 A convenient feature of this stochastic attrition interpretation is that it can be invoked to derive estimates of the  true  length of chains that is, the length distribution of chains that would have been observed had no attrition taken place.
In particular, White [39] proposed the estimator Ql 2 j=0(1   rj)  pl  pl = (1) (2) where  pl is an estimate of the  true  percentage of paths with length l,  pl is the observed percentage of completed chains with length l, and rj is the probability of attrition from step j to step j + 1.
In deriving this estimator, White assumed that individuals who knew the target directly would always pass on the message; thus  last-step attrition  would be zero.
Although plausible, this assumption is not inevitable, nor was it based on empirical evidence.
Dodds et al. [6] therefore removed this assumption, resulting in the estimator Ql 1 j=0(1   rj)  pl  pl = which is identical to (1), except that the product in the denominator is from j = 0 to j = l  1.
Importantly, it follows from either estimator that the  true  average path length is longer than that for observed chains, for the simple reason that longer chains are more likely to terminate than shorter chains.
For example, White estimated that in the absence
 ple, roughly 75% of messages were passed on at each step, corresponding to a 25%  attrition rate.  lengths in the vicinity of eight steps, not six.
The resulting estimates, however, are still  short  in the sense of being comparable to that of an equivalent random graph (i.e., of the same size and average density); thus the upshot of these methods, and the conclusion of most previous studies, is that as long as the stochastic failure assumption is reasonable, then it would appear that the observation of even a small fraction of short chains in small-world experiments is su cient to support the algorithmic small-world hypothesis.
An alternative interpretation of results from small-world experiments, however, takes direct issue with the stochastic attrition assumption, contending that low completion rates should be seen not merely as missing data, but as evidence that most pairs of individuals are not connected by short, navigable paths.
For example, Kleinfeld [15] has argued that The research on the small-world problem suggests not a counter-intuitive triumph of social research, but an all-too familiar pattern: We live in a world where social capital, the ability to make personal connections, is not widespread and more apt to be a possession of people of higher social status.
Many small worlds do exist, such as scientists with worldwide connections or university administrators at a single campus.
Rather than living in a  small, small world,  we may live in a world that looks a lot like a bowl of lumpy oatmeal, with many small worlds loosely connected and perhaps some small worlds not connected at all.
Objections of this kind raise two distinct ways in which low completion rates may be systematically related to the searchability of the network itself.
First, it may be the case simply that some people are good at conducting social searches, while others are not.
Exceptionally determined or resourceful individuals, that is, may be able to construct short paths to distant targets; but most people lacking such  social capital  [5, 29] are e ectively isolated from one another.
A second objection, compounding the  rst, is that chains terminate because most source-target pairs live in e ectively separate populations that can only be reached via long or otherwise undiscoverable paths that is,  many small worlds, loosely connected.  Thus, pairs of individuals who are already  close , in the sense of sharing social, geographical, and demographic attributes, can  nd each other, but  distant  pairs cannot.
Because, moreover, many more pairs are distant than close, the bulk of message chains should not be expected to complete as indeed is observed in small-world experiments.
Although distinct, both objections call into question the veracity of the estimators (1) and (2).
Speci cally, the  rst objection implies that chain attrition is not merely a function of unrelated extrinsic factors, as assumed by the stochastic attrition hypothesis, but rather re ects variability among individuals.
Accordingly, one would expect chain attrition to correlate strongly with individual-level attributes such as education, income, and so on, that are typically related to social capital [5, 29].
Meanwhile, the second objection that many source-target pairs live in  distant  groups implies that long chains are not being counted in the estimation procedure, and that the resulting estimators are therefore biased.
Because the estimators (1) and (2) fail to account for heterogeneity in attrition, and also neglect to provide any guarantee that they are unbiased, one might suspect that the  true  chain length estimates are higher  possibly much higher than conventional wisdom allows.
In what follows, we examine data from two small-world experiments more systematically than in previous studies, and introduce an estimator that is (a) provably unbiased, and (b) allows for heterogeneous attrition rates.
We  nd support for each of the interpretations discussed above: Speci cally, the median  true  chain length (i.e.
in a hypothetical experiment with zero attrition) can be estimated robustly to be about 6-7; however, the mean of this distribution is likely to be much larger.
In other words, at least half of all chains that start would be expected to reach their targets within about six steps; but at least some chains should be expected to be very long, consistent with the claim that some pairs of individuals are extremely unlikely to be able to locate each other.
Our data come from two recent experiments one of which has been reported on previously [6] that were designed to replicate Milgram s small-world method, except using email instead of physical packets, a change that permitted access to a much larger and more diverse population than was available to Milgram, and at lower cost [3].
The  rst of these experiments was conducted between December 2001 and August 2003; and the second version followed immediately thereafter, and ran until December 2007.
In the  rst experiment, 98,865 people from 168 countries initiated 106,295 chains directed at 18 targets in 13 countries.
In the second experiment, 85,621 people from 163 countries participated in 56,033 chains, directed at 21 targets in 13 countries.
In both cases, participants were mostly from the United States and Western Europe, were predominantly white and Christian, and were largely young, college-educated, middle-class professionals.2 The results exhibit the same combination of short path lengths and low completion rates that typify small-world
 search teams, and the remaining targets were selected from more than 4,000 volunteers (recruited via the website) with the aim of achieving as diverse a pool as possible.
Initial senders were recruited from among people who had heard about the experiment from the media or by word of mouth, where, in order to obtain as many participants as possible, there was no attempt to control the characteristics of senders.
Participants registered at the website and were asked to reach target persons, with the restriction that they could only advance the chain through people whom they already knew.
The following message was then emailed to the chosen recipients: We are testing the idea that everyone in the world can be reached through a short chain of social acquaintances.
Your objective is to use your social connections to move a message  closer  to a particular  target  person.
Upon receiving this message, recipients had to verify whether they knew the senders and then send the message on to another person whom they knew; and this process continued until the target was reached.
Thus, they created a series of message chains from initiators to targets.
The experiment also recorded demographics data and relational attributes (type, origin, strength of relationship, and reasons for choosing recipients) between senders and recipients.
however, were much lower than those recorded by Milgram and his colleagues: whereas Travers and Milgram experienced roughly 20% completion, in Experiment 1, a total of 491 chains (0.5%) successfully reached their targets3; and in Experiment 2, the completion rate was 0.1% (61 chains).
These ultra-low completion rates are directly attributable to the peculiar design of the small-world method, in which chain completion rates diminish exponentially with chain length.4 In order to address the  rst critique, above, that the estimators (1) and (2) do not account for individual-level heterogeneity, we  rst need to model attrition in terms of individual-level attributes, like socioeconomic status, gender, education, and age, that are typically associated with di erences in social capital [5, 29].
Unfortunately, measuring the impact of individual attributes on chain attrition is complicated by another feature of small-world experiments: The majority of people who did not continue chains never came to the experiment website; thus we do not have data on their individual attributes.
As a substitute, therefore, we instead estimate the  next-step continuance  probability: Given an individual A who forwards the message to B (and assuming B is not the ultimate target), we estimate the probability that B continues the chain.
In this sense, we are e ectively modeling the  search ability  of our participants (i.e., their ability to choose someone who will pass along the message).
As such, our model also includes relational attributes (between A and B) and is adjusted for the target.
In total, we analyzed 88,875 sender-recipient pairs5, of which 32% of pairs comprised recipients who forwarded messages (continued links), and 68% comprised recipients who did not (terminated links).
We estimate the next-step continuance probability by logistic multilevel regression (also known as  hierarchical linear modeling ), a standard statistical tool for modeling data with group structure [7].
In our case, for example,  high school,   college  and  graduate school  would be separate groups in the category of education.
Multilevel regression
 al.
[6], changes in our coding and some subsequent cleaning of the data have resulted in somewhat di erent  gures for number of participants and completed chains.
There are three main reasons for these discrepancies.
First, we now include a number of chains that were originally excluded by Dodds et al [6] because they contained unidenti ed individuals.
Second, Dodds et al. [6] required actual emails to be sent between two people in order to establish a connection.
After closer examination, however, we found that there were people-especially those directly adjacent to targets-who received more than one message but who had forwarded only one.
Here we count a connection whenever we know that it exists from previous email exchanges; thus we have a higher total number for both incomplete and completed chains.
Finally, we have added three demographic variables (ethnicity, work industry, and work position) that were inaccessible previously due to many participants answering the  other  category.
We solved the problem by checking manually all uncategorized answers and putting them into relevant categories.
constant attrition, in six removes there are 1780 chains left, whereas with a 67% attrition rate, only 129 survive.
chains; thus by studying links instead of completed chains, we dramatically increase the number of relevant data points.
can be thought of as a compromise between two extreme approaches to pooling data from di erent groups: no pooling and complete pooling.
No pooling corresponds to treating di erent groups within the same category as unrelated; thus one would  t distinct parameters for each group (e.g.
high school versus college) without imposing any relationship amongst them.
By contrast, complete pooling e ec-tively corresponds to ignoring the presence of groups within a particular category; for example, treating all individuals as the same regardless of educational status.
In the middle ground of multilevel models, one allows for the possibility that groups within a category are related, without specifying a hard constraint on the strength of their relationship.
Speci cally, our model is of the form P(yi = 1) = logit  1(  +  nonwhiteXnonwhite,i +  f emaleXf emale,i +  j1[i] +  j9[i]) where the outcome variable yi indicates the next-step continuance,   is the intercept, the two   terms are  xed e ects for female and nonwhite participants respectively, and the  jk[i] correspond to the nine group e ects.
For each category k (e.g., education), jk[i] is the group (e.g., high school, college, graduate school, etc.)
of the ith response, and we model the group parameters within each category as coming from a normal distribution:  jk[i]   N (0,  2 k).
The subscript jk[i], in other words, can be thought of as a mapping from a particular response i to a particular group jk[i] within category k.
Our model therefore includes a total of 66 parameters: an overall intercept term; one parameter each for gender (male/female) and race (white/non-white); 54 distinct attribute parameters, which in turn are grouped into nine cat-egories6 (age, education, work  eld, work position, income, strength of relationship with message recipient, reason for choosing recipient, origin of relationship with recipient, and target); and one variance parameter for each category.
The estimated attrition rate for a particular individual (e.g., female, 30-39 years old, with a college degree, etc.)
is obtained by adding together the relevant terms in the model, and taking logit 1 of the sum.
The variance parameters  2 k indicate how closely related the groups are within each category k, and themselves are inferred from the data; large variance corresponds to weak association of groups (i.e. no pooling), and small variance corresponds to strong association (i.e.
complete pooling).
Table 1 shows the standard deviations  k for the nine cat-egories7 ( rst column).
Although these  k capture the typical e ect of the category on attrition, they do so on the logit scale, which is di cult to interpret.
To aid interpretation, therefore, these values are translated in the second column to a probability scale that is relative to the baseline attrition rate.
For example, di erences between targets account for a 2% absolute change in attrition rates, while di erences in the education of senders accounts for 3%.
Since the baseline attrition rate is 30%, a 2% absolute change corresponds to a
 di erences are ampli ed by the correlation of attributes to-
rent chain length were not statistically signi cant predictors.
for the variance parameters, Table 2 states standard errors for each group-level coe cient within every category.
from a multilevel logistic regression model of next-step continuance probabilities.
Attrition is stated as typical deviation from the baseline of 30% for white males.
Table 2: Coe cient estimates from a multilevel logistic regression model of next-step continuance probabilities.
The probabilities are stated as deviation from the baseline of 30% for white males.
Category Target Age Relationship Origin Income Work Position Work Field Reason for Choosing Recipient Relationship Strength Education Level  k Attrition   0.02   0.02   0.01   0.01   0.01   0.02   0.01   0.02   0.03








 gether with the compounding e ects of chain-based message propagation.
Table 2 develops this analysis, where now we examine the e ects of individual and relational attributes on the next-step continuance probability, relative to the baseline attrition of 30% (for typical white males).
Each row in Table 2 corresponds to a group (e.g.,  college  and  18-29 ) within the nine attribute categories (e.g.,  education  and  age ), as well as the overall intercept, and the two  xed e ects for females and nonwhites.
For any given group (i.e., row in the table), the  rst table column is the estimated coe cient for that group8, along with its associated standard error; and the second column gives the corresponding e ect on the next-step continuance rate.
Consistent with our interpretation of Table 1, Table 2 reveals a small but signi cant range of attrition rates, with individuals possessing the attributes of high social capital associated with higher continuance probabilities: possessing a graduate education, for example, increased pass-along by 4% above the baseline, whereas having only a high-school education diminished it by 3%; and whereas participants earning over $100,000 were 2% more likely than average to pass along a chain, those earning less than $25,000 were
 erogeneity in attrition rates tends to be correlated across attributes (e.g., high education is associated with high income); thus the overall distribution of estimated attrition rates for participants is considerably greater than is indicated by any single group e ect, with attrition rates varying from 60% to 80%, as shown in Figure 1.
Overall, therefore, our analysis shows that high status individuals are more likely to pass along messages to friends who again pass them along, and that these di erences, once compounded over multiple attributes, can be large.
One might also note, however, that the distribution in Figure 1 is sharply peaked around the mean; thus although individual di erences can be large, they are typically small.
Regardless, the homogeneity assumption used in estimators (1) and (2) is clearly invalid.
To understand the relation between attrition and chain completion, therefore, we require an estimator that can account for heterogeneous attrition rates.
We also wish to address the second criticism raised in Sec-
white males as a baseline group.
Attributes Age Under 17



 Above 60 Education Level Graduate school College/University High school Elementary school Work Field Media/Advertising/Arts Education/Science IT/Telecommunication Government Other Work Position Specialist/Technical Student Other Unemployed/Retired Executive/Manager Income More than $100,000 $50,000 - $100,000 $25,000 - $49,999 $2,000 - $24,999 Less than $2000 Relationship Strength Extremely close Very close Fairly close Casually Not close Reason for Choosing Recipient Profession Education Work brings contact Geography Other Relationship Origin Work School Internet Mutual friend Relative Other Fixed E ects Intercept Female Nonwhite Coef.
(S.E.)
Probability


 -0.068 (0.06) -0.071 (0.06) -0.13 (0.07)

 -0.14 (0.08) -0.048 (0.11)

 -0.018 (0.05) -0.056 (0.05) -0.084 (0.04)


 -0.0045 (0.03) -0.040 (0.02)

 -0.0078 (0.04) -0.056 (0.04) -0.064 (0.05)
 -0.013 (0.05)
 -0.0093 (0.05) -0.16 (0.07)


 -0.010 (0.03) -0.074 (0.03)


 -0.013 (0.03) -0.028 (0.03) -0.041 (0.03) -0.85 (0.12) -0.063 (0.025) -0.13 (0.041)


 -0.01 -0.02 -0.03

 -0.03 -0.01


 -0.01 -0.02



 -0.01


 -0.01 -0.01



 -0.03



 -0.01



 -0.01 -0.01
 -0.01 -0.03 ability 1 P paths longer  true  paths are more likely to be  observed  as incomplete chains9.
Hence, the outcome       is ultimately  observed to complete  with probability P ( )Q( ).
In particular, summing over all possible outcomes, a non-missing value is observed on a given trial with probability   P ( )Q( ), and a missing values is observed with prob  P ( )Q( ).
Let X1, .
.
.
, Xn denote n such independent trials (in this case, n is the total number of chains that are initiated), where Xi is either an uncorrupted observation (e.g., a completed chain) or a missing value (e.g., an incomplete chain).
That is, Xi    {NA} where NA denotes a missing value.
The  true  expected chain length without attrition   can be expressed as a weighted average over the space of all paths (higher weights correspond to more likely paths):
     = f ( )P ( ) Figure 1: The estimated distribution of attrition over individuals.
Average attrition 0.7.
tion 2, which is that the estimators (1) and (2) have not been proven to be unbiased, and therefore may not account correctly for the presence of long, but unobserved chains.
We address both these problems by introducing a general technique to correct for missing data based on the classical statistical idea of importance sampling.
Although at a high level importance sampling is similar to estimators (1) and (2), its more rigorous formulation permits us to guarantee that estimates are unbiased, and to specify errors on the estimates.
It also allows us to incorporate heterogeneous attrition rates in a straightforward manner Intuitively, our estimation procedure works in the following manner.
For each non-missing data point (i.e., completed chain), we estimate the likelihood of that data point having been observed.
We then re-weight the non-missing values to account for the fact that some of the data points were more likely to have been observed (i.e., the shorter chains) than others (i.e., the longer chains).
More formally, we consider the space of all possible paths between all pairs of individuals.
In this hypothetical space, there may be many paths that connect any two given individuals, and so we reasonably assume that some paths are more likely to be traversed than others.
In an ideal small world experiment without attrition, we would repeatedly observe the lengths of these random paths between random pairs of individuals.
In the more general setting, we suppose there is a discrete outcome space   (e.g., the space of paths) that is equipped with a probability P (e.g., P describes the likelihood of selecting any particular path amongst all paths between all pairs of individuals).
An experimental trial corresponds to observing an outcome (e.g., a path)       drawn with probability P .
In the case of missing data, however, we do not always get to see the uncorrupted outcome       (e.g., the path).
To model this missing data situation, we suppose that after an outcome   is drawn, it is observed with probability Q( ) and reported missing with probability 1   Q( ).
In our small-world setting,  missing  corresponds to an incomplete chain, and due to attrition, Q( ) is generally smaller for longer Pn where f ( ) denotes the length of the path  10.
Without missing values (i.e., Q( ) = 1), the usual unbiased estimator for   is the sample average 1 i=1 f (Xi).
With missing n values, (i.e., Q( ) < 1), averaging over all the non-missing values in the sample biases our estimate toward outcomes that we are more likely to observe11.
We adjust for this biased observation of outcomes by re-weighting samples by their inverse probability of observation, an idea based on the classical statistical technique of importance sampling.
This re-weighting results in an unbiased estimator, as given in Theorem 1.
unbiased estimate of the mean   = P Theorem 1.
In the general setting described above, an   f ( )P ( ) is given by mX i=1   =
 n f (Xki ) Q(Xki ) where Xk1 , .
.
.
, Xkm are the m observed, non-missing values, and Q( ) is the probability that   is observed uncorrupted after it has been sampled.
Proof.
First extend f to a function  f de ned on  {NA} (where NA denotes a missing value), by setting  f ( ) = f ( ) for       and  f (NA) = 0.
Then we can rewrite the estimator as nX i=1   =
 n  f (Xi) Q(Xi) where the sum is taken over all samples (including the missing values).
Since the samples Xi are identically distributed,
 responds to its usage in probability theory that is, as a random trial in an experiment and does not imply that the chain is observed to complete.
Indeed, the point is that most chains that are  observed  in the statistical sense do not complete.
Thus one should think of all chains as being observed, where some (a minority) are  observed to complete,  while others (a majority) are  observed not to complete. 
 of an arbitrary function f .
gious in the case of estimating chain lengths, since the probability of observing a chain tends to decrease exponentially with its length; thus we are much more likely to see short chains, and hence underestimate mean chain length.
missing with probability P ( )Q( ), and  f (NA) = 0, we have f ( ) Q( ) P ( )Q( ) = f ( )P ( ) =  .
     f (Xi)   Q(Xi)

   = Hence,   is unbiased.
of   =P Theorem 1 shows that   generates an unbiased estimate   f ( )P ( ) for any function f .
When f ( ) is the length of a chain  , then   estimates the mean chain length.
mX i=1   =
 n L(Xki ) Q(Xki ) (3) where Xk1 , .
.
.
, Xkm are the m observed completed chains, L( ) is the length of chain  , and n is the total number of complete and incomplete chains in the sample.
Theorem 1 can also be used to estimate the entire chain length distribution.
Set fi( ) = 1 if   is a chain of length i, and fi( ) = 0 otherwise.
Then the expectation of fi is given by
 pi = fi( )P ( ) = P ( ).
  is of length i
   That is, pi is the probability that a randomly chosen chain has  true  length i.
Applying Theorem 1 to this indicator function fi yields an unbiased estimate of pi:  pi =
 n fi(Xkj ) Q(Xkj ) =
 n
 Q(Xk) (4)

 Xk has length i
 mX j=1 Computing  pi for i = 1, 2, .
.
.
gives an approximation of the true chain length distribution, and in particular, allows us to estimate the true median chain length in an idealized world without attrition.
Theorem 1 shows that   is unbiased; Corollary 1, below, derives the variance of  , and in particular, shows that the variance of   increases as the probability of observation Q( ) decreases.
That is, when data are more likely to go missing, our estimates are understandably more variable.
Corollary 1.
The variance of   satis es Var( ) =
 n f 2( ) P ( ) Q2( )    2 .
!
#
   Proof.
Using the notation of Theorem 1, by independence, var( ) = Since   is unbiased,    f (X1)  
 var
 = and the result is shown.
.
n var
      f (X1)    f 2(X1)  

 f 2( )      2 !
P ( ) Q2( )    2 In Corollary 1, the variance of   is expressed in terms of the  true  probability of selection P ( ), which is not usually available in applications.
Hence, the variance cannot generally be computed directly by this formula.
Furthermore, in practice variability in estimates of the mean is further increased by noise in estimates of attrition (i.e., noise in estimates of Q( )).
We account for these two sources of variance by a modi ed bootstrap sampling procedure described in Section 5.
Applying the attrition model of Section 3 together with the missing data correction of Section 4, we now estimate the  true  chain length distribution based on the small-world data.
We start by examining the Travers and Milgram [34] data, and the Dodds et al.
[6] data, under the assumption of homogeneous attrition; and then proceed with the main analysis, an investigation of chain length with heterogeneous attrition.
Homogeneous Attrition.
For estimation based on the homogeneous attrition model, we assume that individuals terminate chains (i.e., they do not forward messages) with probability r, independent of their personal attributes; hence, individuals independently forward messages with probability 1   r. Since a chain   of length L( ) reaches its target only if each individual in the chain forwards the message, in the homogeneous attrition model the chain is observed as complete with probability Q( ) = (1   r)L( ).
We generate generate con dence intervals for our estimates by bootstrap sampling.
From the original set of n complete and incomplete chains, we  rst resample n chains with replacement, generating a bootstrap sample S1, where we note that in the sample some of the original chains appear more than once while others do not appear at all.
Repeating this resampling procedure k = 10, 000 times produces k bootstrap samples S1, .
.
.
, Sk where each sample Si is itself a random resampling of the original data.
These randomly generated sets of chains simulate what would have been observed had we been able to repeat the entire experiment k times; thus we can obtain k estimates of the  true  mean chain length12.
The con dence interval for the mean chain length is then de ned by the range of the middle 95% of these k bootstrap estimates.
In the Travers and Milgram data, we empirically  nd an attrition rate of r = .25, and so have Q( ) = (.75)L( ).
Applying the estimator (3) with this choice of Q( ) yields an estimated  true  mean of 11.8 (95% CI: 8.5-15), compared with the observed mean 6.2.
The estimator (4) correspondingly allows us to approximate the entire chain length distribution, from which a median of 7 (95% CI: 6-7) is computed, in approximate agreement13 with the previously reported median of 8 [39].
Next we consider the Dodds et al.
[6] data, again under a homogeneous attrition assumption.
Here, however, we consider a more nuanced attrition model in which the
 because the data given to the estimator changes with each bootstrap sample, we obtain di erent estimates.
additional assumption made by White that senders at the last remove, being personally acquainted with the target (by de nition) would always (i.e. with 100% likelihood) pass on the letter.
As noted earlier, by e ectively increasing the probability that chains would complete, this assumption actually increases the estimated chain length by one, versus the alternative assumption (made by Dodds et al. [6]) that all links were equally susceptible to attrition.
Thus White s estimate of 8 is essentially the same as our estimate of 7.
remaining individuals in the chain have attrition r = .70.
These values of attrition were empirically determined from the data, and the substantial di erence found between r0 and r motivates our decision to treat them separately14.
To reach the target, the chain initiator must  rst forward the message to the second participant in the chain (which happens with probability 1   r0), and then each of the next participants must also forward the message (which occurs with probability (1 r)L( ) 1).
Consequently, in this model, the probability Q( ) that a chain reaches its target (i.e., is observed as complete) is given by Q( ) = (1   r0)(1   r)L( ) 1 = (1   .41)(1   .70)L( ) 1.
With this choice of Q( ), the estimator (3) for mean chain length and the estimator (4) for the full chain length distribution yield a  true  mean length of 41.5 (95% CI: 20-68) and a robust median of 6 (95% CI: 6-6).
This estimate of the median is in agreement with Dodds et al. s estimated range of 5-7 [6].
Heterogeneous Attrition.
We now proceed with the main analysis, estimating the chain length distribution while allowing for heterogeneous attrition, as modeled in Section 3.
Recall that due to limits in the experimental design, we estimate the  next-step continuance  probability: Given an individual A who forwards the message to B (and assuming B is not the ultimate target), we estimate the probability that B continues the chain based on A s attributes.
In particular, the next-step continuance probability is a function of A s gender, race, age, education, work  eld, work position, income, strength of A s relationship with B, A s reason for selecting B, origin of A s relationship with B, and the  nal target.
We  rst de ne the probability Q( ) of observing a completed chain in this heterogeneous attrition model.
For a chain   of length L( ), enumerate the links in the chain by  0    1,  1    2, .
.
.
,  L( ) 1    L( ), and let r i i+1 denote the probability that the ith participant in the chain fails to forwards the message.
We assume the chain initiator fails to forwards the message with  xed probability r 0 1 = .41, found empirically from the data.
For i > 1, r i i+1 is estimated from the next-step continuance model of Section 3 based on the attributes of the (i   1)st participant in the chain  .
For example, if the (i   1)st participant in   is a 20-29 year-old white male with a graduate degree, etc., we may estimate r i i+1 = .67.
Combining these continuance probabilities from each step, we de ne the probability of observing a complete chain (i.e., a chain that makes it to its target) by Q( ) = (1   r 0 1 ) (1   r 1 2 )   
 To generate con dence intervals for estimates based on heterogeneous attrition, we require a slightly more complicated bootstrap sampling method than for the homogeneous case above, as now we also need to account for uncertainty
 derives from the nature of the experiment, which relied on initial senders signing up at the web site to participate.
Naturally, subsequent senders in a given chain did not volunteer, but were instead recruited by previous senders; thus were presumably not as motivated to complete the exercise as those who volunteered to initiate the chains.
Figure 2: The estimated CDF of chain length under the heterogeneous attrition model.
Error bars indicate 95% con dence intervals.
in our estimates of attrition, which in turn translates to uncertainty in Q( ).
As in the case of homogenous attrition, bootstrap samples S1, .
.
.
, Sk are generated by resampling n = 162, 328 chains from the original set of n complete and incomplete chains.
Each bootstrap sample is a simulated dataset that mimics what could have occurred had the entire small-world experiment been repeated.
Next, we simulate vectors of regression coe cients (cid:126) 1, .
.
.
, (cid:126) k for the attrition model of Section 3, where each vector of parameters (cid:126) i is a complete set of coe cients for the model.
In particular, (cid:126) i consists of parameter values for each group-level e ect (e.g.,  graduate school  and  20-29 ), and allows one to estimate next-step continuance probabilities for given attribute data.
These vectors of coe cients are generated by taking into account both the uncertainty in individual parameters, and the correlation between parameters15.
In short, for a given chain  , each coe cient vector (cid:126) i produces di erent estimates for the probability r i i+1 of failing to forwarding a message across each link in the chain, and hence generates di erent estimates of the probability Q(cid:126) i ( ) that the chain   is observed, re ecting uncertainty in the attrition model.
The mean for each bootstrap sample Si is computed by way ( ), as derived from the of the observation probability Q(cid:126) i attrition model with parameter vector (cid:126) i.
As before, this procedure results in k = 10, 000 di erent estimates of the mean chain length, and the reported con dence interval is the range of the middle 95% of these estimates.
Appealing as before to the estimators (3) and (4), we  nd the mean under this heterogeneous attrition model is
 Estimation of mean chain length is clearly sensitive to uncertainty in estimates of the probability of observation Q( ), resulting in a wide con dence interval.
The median, however, appears to be much more stable.
The entire estimated cumulative distribution function (CDF) for chain length is shown in Figure 2.
Since there are relatively few long chains, the variance in the estimated CDF grows with chain length.
Randomized Attrition.
One possible objection to these estimates is that since individuals in completed chains by
 erated from a  non-informative  prior, and represent con g-urations of parameters that are consistent with the data (see Gelman & Hill [7], Section 7.2).
.
over tting the attrition probabilities, mistakenly inferring that attributes of participants who happen to be in completed chains predict lower attrition rates.
Indeed, the average estimated attrition for individuals in completed chains is 3% lower than the average estimated attrition for individuals in incomplete chains.
To address this possibility of over tting, we consider a second heterogeneous attrition model, in which attrition probabilities Ri are randomly generated from the distribution of estimated attrition rates shown in Figure 1.
That is, we assume individuals have attrition rates that are randomly drawn from this estimated population distribution, and de- ne the probability of observing a completed chain   of length L( ) to be Q( ) = (1   R 0 )(1   R 1   (1   R L( ) 1 ).
Each individual in each chain is independently assigned an attrition rate chosen from the population distribution.
Again invoking the estimators (3) and (4), we  nd that under this modi ed attrition model, the  true  mean chain length is now 49 (95% CI: 37-63), where con dence intervals are generated in analog to the previous heterogeneous attrition case.
Also as before, we estimate the median, which we  nd to be

 All four estimates one based on Travers and Milgram s data; and three based on the experiments described above under assumptions of (a) homogenous attrition; (b) empirically observed heterogeneous attrition; and (c) randomized heterogeneous attrition are presented in Table 3, which prompts three observations.
First, estimates of the median are extremely stable, with all four procedures predicting a  true  median chain length in the range of 6-7 steps; thus, for approximately half the population, the claim that  everyone is connected by six degrees of separation  appears to be valid not only in the topological sense, but also in the algorithmic sense.
Second, in contrast with the median, estimates of the mean are extremely unstable, ranging from 11.8 to 49 steps, and with 95% con dence intervals ranging from 4.5 to 68.
That estimated means can vary so wildly as a function of di erent assumptions about the heterogeneity of attrition is perhaps not surprising given the known sensitivity of chain completion to attrition, but it does suggest that any conclusions regarding the mean should be treated with caution.
In spite of this, however, a third conclusion appears warranted namely that at least some, and possibly many, chains are much, much longer than the median.
Thus although the algorithmic small-world phenomenon appears to be satis ed for at least half the population, it also appears not to be satis ed for at least some fraction.
In concluding, we return to the distinction posed in the Introduction between the topological and algorithmic versions of the small-world hypothesis.
Empirically, the most striking contrast between the two is that whereas in our analysis, we  nd very large di erences between the mean and the median path lengths, studies of topological path lengths typically  nd that the two measures are almost interchangeable: in the largest such study to date, for example, Leskovec and Horvitz [20] found that the mean shortest path length was
 algorithmic path lengths di er in this manner is ultimately Table 3: Summary of  true  average algorithmic distance under homogenous and heterogeneous attrition models.
Model Homogeneous attrition (Travers/Milgram) Homogeneous attrition (Dodds et.
al.3) Heterogeneous attrition (Dodds et al.3) Randomized (Dodds et al.3) attrition Mean

 Median







 unclear; however, it probably derives from the observation that the number of steps in a search chain depends not only on the actual (i.e. topological) distance between the source and target, but also on the search strategies of the intermediaries.
Two individuals, in other words, may be the same distance from a given target, but if one has a better search strategy, the resulting chain will be shorter.
Moreover, if one sender merely perceives the task to be easier, the two chains may experience di erent outcomes for example, one may terminate while the other continues thus leading to the appearance of a di erence in di culty when in fact the  real  di culty is the same.
Given only a set of complete and incomplete chains, therefore, it is arguably impossible to determine how much of the observed di erences in chain length arise from (a) di erences in topological distance, (b) di erences in search strategies, and (c) di erences in beliefs and motivations.
In simulation exercises, these ambiguities can be eliminated by assuming a search rule [13, 37], but of course there is no guarantee that these rules resemble those being used by the participants in real-world experiments; thus simulations alone cannot resolve the problem either.
In principle, the problem might be resolved with an alternative experimental design, in which one could sample pairs of individuals according to their known topological distances, and also to represent a wide range of individual-level attributes.
One could then run a large number of small-world type experiments, where participants would be drawn from the known sample, and would be required to pass messages exclusively through the known network.
By comparing the lengths of completed chains with known topological shortest paths, one could place a measure of the  true  dif- culty of a search between pairs with given attributes.
And by varying incentives to participants as well as performing followup surveys, search di culty could be further parsed in terms of di erences in search strategies, perceived di culty, and apathy.
Although nontrivial to implement, the recent explosion of large social networking sites like Facebook, as well as email [18] and instant messaging networks [20], at least render such a design feasible.
The results of such a study, moreover, would not only help to settle a decades-long debate over the e ective connectivity of the social world, but would also shed new light on the relation between individual social capital, topological network structure, and the algorithmic properties of social search.
The authors wish to acknowledge helpful conversations with P. Bearman and A. Gelman.
Research supported in part by NSF grants SES-0094162 and SES-0339023, and by the James S. McDonnell Foundation.
