In Gnutella170% of the users do not share any  les and nearly 50% of the queries are answered by the top 1% of the nodes [1].
Free riding in Gnutella leads to degradation of the system performance and the absence of common goals among peers makes the network vulnerable to malicious behavior.
Digital Reputations can be used to inject the necessary motivation in the Gnutella servents.
Digital reputation systems like EBay and P2Prep[4] assume that peers will value their reputations because of the bene t that can be derived from a good reputation, and will continue performing transactions in the same  fashion , as they have performed in the past.
PRIDE complements Gnutella with minimal modi cation of the Gnutella protocol.
PRIDE does not need any central server to identify the peers.
Peers generate their own identities using self certi cation and locally store the recommendations received by them.
A peer (requester) uses the Gnutella query for locating content providers.
Subsequently it selects the  best  peer (provider) from the list (obtained in the query phase), based on the reputations 1one of the largest p2p networks Copyright is held by the author/owner(s).
of the providers.
The requester downloads content from the provider and grants a recommendation to the provider.
Additionally the requester signs and stores the transaction number of the provider in the network.
The provider stores the recommendations locally and shows them to the next requester as a proof of its reputation.
As a result the re-questers do not have to perform a network search for the provider s reputation information.
The salient features of PRIDE are self-certi cation, IP Based Safeguard and the elicitation-storage protocol.
One of the main goals of a reputation system for a p2p network is to reduce the chances of a peer getting cheated in a transaction.
For example, if a requester downloads music from a provider, it should be able to ascertain the probability of the fact that the music  les are complete.
Similarly the provider would like to ascertain that the recommendation it will receive from the requester, will at least be in conformance with the quality of the service provided.
Digital reputations can mitigate both of the above threats.
A reputation system brings in its own set of issues and threats.
It is important to have a identi er allocation strategy for peers in order to restrict any peer from generating a liar farm (multiple identities) [5] to raise its own reputation.
In addition, the reputation information has to be tamper proof and easily retrievable while upholding the accountability of the reputation issuer.
The other challenges for any reputation system are  ballot stu ng,   bad mouthing,  negative and positive discrimination [3].
Each peer runs its own certi cate authority (CA) which signs the identity certi cate(s) of the peer.
All the cer-ti cates used in self-certi cation are digitally signed statements, similar to SDSI certi cates [6].
An identity certi -cate acts as a  proxy  to the peer and binds the public key of a peer to the other information of the peer.
Additionally, the IP-ADDRESS  eld, a mandatory  eld for the identity certi cate, speci es the IP address range from which this identity can be used.
If the identity is used from an IP address out of the range, the other party in the transaction suspects foul play and aborts the interaction .
From here on, the word  identity  is used to refer to identity certi cate.
Identities are needed to link together (at least some of the) transactions performed by the peer.
Two transactions performed using the same identity can be traced back to the
 peer.
Only when the peer calculating the reputation of an identity knows the transactions of the identity, the reputation of the identity can be calculated.
IP addresses cannot be used as identities because IP addresses are shared among peers in two di erent time spans.
In addition, the peers generally do not manage their own IP addresses.
A peer can perform two roles in the network, a requester: a peer that requests for service or a provider: a peer that provides the service.
At the end of each transaction the requester issues a recommendation (SDSI certi cate) to the provider.
A positive recommendation increases the reputation of the identity of the provider by one while a negative recommendation diminishes it by one.
The requester also submits the corresponding identity certi cate to the provider.
An example of a transaction initiated when the requester downloads some  les from the provider.
Using self-certi cation any peer can generate a large number of identities, feign a large set of peers and maliciously increase the reputation of one or more of its identities by giving false recommendations (similar to ballot stu ng).
Such a farm of identities is called a  liar farm.  A liar farm can be countered if all the identities of a peer can be mapped back to the peer.
If self certi cation is used, a peer s identities cannot be mapped back to it without its consent.
IP Based Safeguard uses security zones that are the subsets of the IP space.
We assume that only the information provider receives the recommendation, and the information requester provides the recommendation.
The requester selects a provider with which it wants to perform a transaction and veri es the identity of the old requesters (recommendation issuers) of the provider.
Each peer maintains a local database of veri ed identities.
The requester  rst checks its local database for a valid identity, matching the identity associated with the recommendation.
If it does not  nd any such valid identity, it veri es the identity of the old requesters of the provider, by performing a cryptographic challenge-response at the IP address in the identity certi -cate of the previous requester(s).
If the challenge-response fails for a particular recommendation, that recommendation is not included in the reputation for the provider identity.
Dellarocas recommends [2] peer annonymity to prevent bad mouthing and discrimmination.
This is an ongoing area of research.
Once the requester has a list of (apparently) valid recommendations, it sorts them by the order of the IP addresses (in the corresponding identity certi cates), determines a security distance, d and divides the linear IP space into slices (security zones) of length d. It averages all the recommendations received by the provider from identities whose IP is in the same security zone.
Finally, it adds the averages of each security zone to calculate the reputation of the provider identity.
IBS is based on the fundamental assumption that it will be di cult for any malicious peer to generate identities that have totally non-contiguous IP addresses.
By increasing the security distance d, a requester can reduce the probability of the provider having an identity farm.
This reduced probability is at the expense of reduction in accuracy of the reputation of the provider.
By decreasing d, the probability of a peer being victimized to a liar farm rises, although the accuracy of the reputation of the provider is higher.
The experiments show that the mean variation of ranks of peers in a network that uses IBS is 13.2   0.2 with a 95% con dence level.
IBS and liar farms have been extensively discussed in [5].
