It is widely believed that Semantic Web ontologies provide a solution to the knowledge management and integration challenges.
The ontology languages such as RDF, DAML+OIL and OWL can serve for knowledge representation.
A great deal of efforts is being invested in using Semantic Web ontologies to create mutually agreeable and consistent vocabularies to describe terminology and data from disparate sources [1].
For example, the NCI Thesaurus Ontology developed and actively maintained by the National Cancer Institute is an OWL ontology.
It defines 60,000+ named classes, a roughly equal number of anonymous classes and 100,000+ connections these classes.
The OpenGALEN project also created biomedical ontologies with more than 35,000 concepts involved.
(properties) It is natural to consider a semantic web ontology as a large network, where nodes are entities (classes and individuals) and links are relationships among entities.
Formally, an ontology can be viewed as a graph G=<N, E>, where N is a set of nodes representing entities, and E is a set of edges representing properties that link nodes.
These properties include both OWL properties (such as owl:subclassOf, owl:equivalentClasses, etc.)
and user-defined properties.
As an example, Figure 1 shows the network view of the ProPreO ontology, which describes Proteomics data and process and is developed by the National Center for Research Resources (NCRR).
In this paper, we show that a large ontology network such as the one shown in Figure 1 is  scale-free .
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s).
It is discovered that many complex networks, such as the Internet, networks, are scale-free [2, 3].
The term  scale-free  comes from the fact that the structure and dynamics of such networks are independent of the scale of the networks.
The distinguish characteristics of scale-free networks is that nodes in such networks are not randomly or evenly connected.
On the contrary, some nodes are highly connected, acting as  hubs" that connects the rest of the nodes.
For example, a study of S. cerevisiae protein-protein interaction network shows that about 93% of the proteins have five or fewer connections, while only 0.7% of the proteins have more than 15 connections [4].
More specifically, the degree distribution of nodes in scale-free networks follows the power-law, such that the probability that a node is connected to k other nodes is proportional to: p(k) = C k-a where C is a constant and a is the exponent of the power-law.
Taking the logarithm on both sides of the above equation, we get ln(p(k)) = ln(C) - aln(k).
So a power-law distribution is seen as a straight line on a log-log plot.
The slope of the line is a and the intercept is log(C).
Figure 1.
The ontology network of the ProPreO ontology.
To check if ontology network such as the one shown in Figure 1 is scale-free, we have collected a set of real-world biological and biomedical ontologies (as shown in Table 1).
To facilitate automated data collection, we have also developed a tool, which traverses an ontology network, collects & stores relevant
 ontology networks.
Figure 2 shows the degree distributions of the ontology Full-Galen and NCI-Ontology.
The distributions form straight lines in log-log diagrams, revealing the power-law behavior.
Table 1 shows the best fit power-law parameters for all studied ontologies.
The exponent a ranges from 2.12 to 2.47.
The corresponding R2 ranges from 0.91 to 0.99, indicating good fitness of the data (at the significant level 0.00).
Table 1.
The characteristics of studied ontologies Ontology
 Full-Galen Gene
 NCI-Ontology ProPreO Tambis Description An ontology for cell types The full GALEN ontology of biomedical terms, anatomy and drugs translated into
 The Gene Ontology project, which provides a controlled vocabulary to describe gene and gene product attributes in any organism.
A biomaterial ontology for microarray experiments in support of MAGE The National Cancer Institute thesaurus, distributed as a component of the NCI Center for caCORE distribution.
A comprehensive Proteomics data and process provenance ontology A biological science ontology developed by the TAMBIS project bioinformatics Size (KB)

 Nodes

 Links

 a































 In this short note we show that, like many natural and social phenomenon, the semantic web ontology is  scale-free .
We derive the findings through empirical analysis of the degree distribution of ontology networks.
