Behind the rapid proliferation, the web exhibits rapid decay as well.
Recent studies have reported that a large fraction of the Web consists of dead pages, and especially, more than 25% of the dead links are involved in the (in)famous soft error redirections [2].
Soft error redirections occur in many ways.
Many web servers today redirect the requested   but permanently or temporarily inaccessible   URL to a dedicated page informing a certain error such as 403 (forbidden), 404 (not found), or 5xx (server error), with the status code 200 (OK).
Sometimes, misco guration causes inadvertent redirections to the site s root page.
Another important type of soft error is a redirection spam.
Redirection methods have historically been abused by spammers in many ways.
For example, when a domain name is allowed to lapse, a spammer often re-registers it and puts a redirect from this site into his own web site, in order to pro t from the prior promotional works of the previous owners of the  parked  site [2].
Sometimes, a spammer generates enormous keyword stu ed URLs and redirects them to the target page.
We regard these types of redirections as soft errors in a broad sense.
  Supported by Korea Research Council of Fundamental Science and Technology.
The ICT at Seoul National University provides research facilities for this study.
This author is supported by Seoul R&BD Program(10581).
  Copyright is held by the author/owner(s).
The soft error redirection seriously disturbs not only the web surfer s experience, but also the search engine s performance in many aspects.
In crawling, for example, it leads to crawl a bunch of pages which are not related with the requested URLs, but whose contents are nearly identical.
In indexing, these irrelevant and near-duplicate pages waste computation time and disk space.
In ranking, they adversely a ect link-based ranking to result in disproportionate promotion to undeserving pages.
Then, in presentation, they distort displayed search results and lead to a poor user experience.
Thus, for search engines, it is crucial to  nd out such unnecessary redirections in as early a stage as possible.
However, to the best of our knowledge, there have been few attempts to tackle this problem in the literature.
Bar-Yossef et al. [2] developed a heuristic for detecting soft 404 s, in which they induce a 404 error by fetching a URL with a random  le name, and  nd out that the target server generates a soft error redirection to a certain page (soft 404).
Their heuristic e ectively  nds soft 404 pages, but it does not cover soft errors related with other types of errors such as 403, or 5xx.
Moreover, the assumption that roots of web sites are never redirected to soft 404 pages prohibits  nding the soft errors related with redirection spams.
We propose a novel measure to detect soft error redirec-tions by analyzing redirection logs collected during crawling operation.
Since we only use the redirection logs, we neither require prede ned white/black lists nor fetch actual web pages for the whole process.
The results demonstrate that we can e ectively identify not only soft 404, but also
 redirection spams in the type of soft errors.
Let u be the URL1 of a page and host(u) be the host-name of u, e.g., for u = http://www.foo.com/bar, host(u) is www.foo.com.
Suppose we have a large collection U of original URLs along with V of target URLs, and a function f : U   V , where a redirection2 from u   U to v   V is denoted by v = f (u).
We are to  nd soft error redirections (u, f (u)) from a redirection log L   U   V , where L is a set of redirection pairs {(u, f (u)) : u   U} collected by a crawler.
Our  rst observation is that if a host has a dedicated page v for soft error redirection (and this appears to be common), we can expect to  nd multiple occurrences of v as
 We assume that all input URLs are properly parsed and normalized according to the URI syntax de ned in RFC 3986.
End-to-end redirection up to 5 hops.
served prevalence of redirections to http://errdoc.gabia.
net/404.html, which is a soft 404 page in one of the largest Korean web hosting sites.
This simple observation gives the following heuristic.
For a target URL v   V , let Iv be the number of redirections in L whose target URL is v.
H1.
A soft error redirection (u, v) is likely to have a large Iv.
Unfortunately, there are many redirections that have large Iv albeit they are not related with soft errors.
For example, legitimate redirections to a site s root page v may have a large Iv due to soft error redirections to v, as well as legitimate redirections.
We observed many instances that a reputable URL such as http://www.google.com is redirected not only from legitimate URLs such as http://google.com, but also from a lot of irrelevant URLs such as http:// buyonline.drugsmore.com.
Thus, a decision solely based on H1 may  lter out relevant redirections too.
We address the challenge of distinguishing between relevant and irrelevant redirections sharing the same target URL by using the following two characteristics of original URL s host.
Since hosts generating a number of soft errors usually tend to redirect many URLs into a few target URLs, we characterize these hosts by means of convergence of redirections.
For a host h, let Nh be the number of original URLs in h and Mh be the number of target URLs redirected from URLs in h. Then, Nh/Mh, the average number of original URLs in h sharing the same redirection target, represents the amount of converging redirections in h. The following heuristic employs this characteristic.
H2.
A redirection from a host h with large Nh/Mh is likely to be a soft error redirection.
On the other hand, legitimate advertising servers or portals  directory servers typically generate a large number of redirections whose target hosts are distinct.
Using this characteristic, we can prevent their redirections from being mis-classi ed as soft errors by H1.
We de ne Hh as the number of distinct target hosts reached by redirections from a host h, i.e. Hh = |{host(y) : (x, y)   L, s.t.
host(x) = h}|.
H3.
A legitimate redirection server h is likely to have a large Hh.
  as follows.
For each redirection (u, v)   L, we de ne Based on the above heuristics, we design a scoring measure  (u, v) (cid:2) k1 log10 Iv + k2 log10 Nhost(u) Mhost(u) + k3 log10
 Hhost(u) where k1, k2, and k3 are nonnegative weight constants.
This measure gives higher scores to soft error redirections.
All the experimental data used for validation were collected by WisponBot [1].
Here, we only show results on the log with 13, 549, 460 redirections from 3.2 billion Korean web pages crawled in June, 2008.
We remark that experimental results for other sets of crawl data with di erent sizes and timestamps show similar trends.
We say that a redirection is a highly suspected soft error, if any of distinct patterns suggesting soft errors, such as  404 ,  503 ,  error , etc., are found in the target URL, but not in the original URL.
We  rst estimate classi cation n o i t r o p o r p e v i t l a u m u






 5 4 3 2 -1




 missing error yahoo empas








 Cutoff Threshold  
 Figure 1: Reverse cumulative distribution curves for highly suspected soft error and normal redirections over   (k1, k2, k3 = 1.0) t e a
 e v i t i s o
 e u r











 True Positive Rate (Recall) = 0.736, False Positive Rate = 0.039 at  3



 False Positive Rate

 Figure 2: ROC Curve with the AUC=0.95 performance of our scoring measure by observing the reverse cumulative distribution of highly suspected soft error redirections across the score.
Fig. 1 shows clear distinction between highly suspected soft error redirections and the entire redirections in the log (ALL).
For example, if we set 3 as the cut-o  threshold value, we can  nd almost 80% of soft errors having  404 ,  503 , and  error  in the target URL.
On the other hand, legitimate redirections from a directory server such as Yahoo directory or empas.com (a Korean portal) have a di erent shape of curve, which shows that almost all redirections have scores below 0.
Fig. 2 shows the Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) curve derived from manual inspection on randomly sampled
 which indicate a high accuracy.
The cut-o  threshold of 3 gives us precision of 0.866, recall of 0.736 and false positive rate of 0.039.
Table 1 below shows composition of correctly classi ed soft errors with this threshold.
We can e ectively identify soft error redirections to sites  root page ( Root  in the table), soft 5xx and 403 as well as soft 404s.
Note that 60.7% of redirection spams are also caught by our measure.
Table 1: Composition of correctly classi ed soft errors etc.
TOT.
