As of December 2007, Google Images is providing keyword-based queries to search more than one billion images on the Internet.
While most commercial image search engines mainly rely on hyperlinks and metadata to index images [1], researchers have been investigating the concept detection approach in order to understand image content directly and annotate keyword terms to images [2].
Keyword-based query is more natural to general users.
However, it shares the same obstacles as in information retrieval   what keywords should I enter in the search box to find out the information I really need?
Users experienced finding the right term.
Content-based image search tried to circumvent this problem.
However, many terms are difficult to portray visually.
In most occasions, we do not know what to  ask  and thus spend lots of time to try various search terms again and again until we find the things we want.
With this trend in mind, we propose to utilize the collaborative Copyright is held by the author/owner(s).
Hawthorne, NY 10532,
 chingyung@us.ibm.com knowledge of human beings on Wikipedia to find out semantic graphs of search terms.
We propose to use an important hidden linkage of terms inside human (i.e., article editors) to consider the relatedness of terms as well as how close terms are.
Our hypothesis is that whoever contributed to two articles, there is a large likelihood that these two terms are somehow related so that an  expert  knows both of them.
We thus draw bipartite graph between authors and terms and collapses it into one-dimensional graphs with weighted links.
Since relationships somewhat captured human being knowledge behind scenes, the constructed semantic graphs look useful and can serve as an important basis for query expansion on image searches.
The rest of this paper is organized as follows.
We first present the framework of the CKSGIS in Section 2.
In Section 3, we describe the image search interface.
Experiment results of the new system are reported in Section 4.
Finally, conclusions and direction of future work are provided in Section 5.
Construction of Semantic Relatedness concept network analysis from internal link social network analysis from contributors Wikipedia Term 1 Term 2 Term 3   Term N Semantic Relatedness Weighting Image Search Interface keyword phrase Image Query Concept Interpreter Semantic Relatedness Graph Plot Important Keyword Ranking Image Display Image Display and Recommendation Interface Figure 1.
The framework of Collaborative Knowledge Semantic Graph Image Search System

 The framework has three major components.
In the first module, we use Wikipedia s concept and social network to compute the semantic distance between relevant terms.
In the second module, we use the  Image Query Concept Interpreter  based on NLP approaches to extract concept terms from keyword or phrase input.
Using the semantic weights resulting from the first module, we plot out a semantic relatedness graph according to image query.
We also rank the importance of each correlated keyword.
In the third module, we utilize the information gathered both from  Semantic Relatedness Graph Plot Out  and  Important Keyword Ranking  to display the image based on each query and make a recommendation according to the obtained relatedness and trends.
When a user inputs a keyword, a semantic relatedness graph built around the keyword will plot out on the left hand side of the interface.
We represent the related terms with nodes and their relationship between terms as edges.
The edge width indicates the relatedness weight between two terms i.e. a thicker edge represents a closer semantic relatedness.
We also created a scroll bar to adapt the threshold of relatedness weight between two nodes.
Meanwhile, if we move the cursor onto one of the keywords on the semantic relatedness graph, the dynamic ranking image search result from external image search engine is shown on the right-hand side.
Figure 2 shows an example based on the keyword  solar energy.  In real time, CKSGIS parses query strings and checks whether the semantic graph of the query term has been previously stored.
If not, then the system checks whether that term exists as a new entry in Wikipedia and thus generates semantic graph in real time by linking that term to other known terms in the database.
We incorporate a user-driven query expansion function.
In order to learn more about a topic or get an answer to an open-ended question, users can select a group of keywords, either by clicking or circling the desired cluster terms.
After the selection has been made, a query is then launched based on the selected keyword and the user will be presented with a number of images provided by the search engine.
Using user-driven query expansion, we help users search images in a focused and efficient manner.
Table 1.
PRankP result of semantic relatedness graph centered by search term  solar energy.  Rank




 Keywords Solar energy Renewable energy Photovoltaics Tidal power Wind power Rank Score





 We also incorporated an interface to list recommended search terms by condensing a semantic graph.
In order to rank the semantic-related terms from a keyword, we use PageRank with Priors [3] to rank the importance of nodes (terms) in a graph (cid:1868)(cid:4666)(cid:1874)|(cid:1873)(cid:4667)(cid:2024)(cid:4666)(cid:1873)(cid:4667)(cid:3036) (cid:4673)(cid:3397)(cid:2010)(cid:1868)(cid:3049), is (cid:2024)(cid:4666)(cid:1874)(cid:4667)(cid:4666)(cid:3036)(cid:2878)(cid:2869)(cid:4667)(cid:3404)(cid:4666)1(cid:3398)(cid:2010)(cid:4667)(cid:4672)  (cid:2914)(cid:3167)(cid:3172)(cid:4666)(cid:3049)(cid:4667) (cid:3048)(cid:2880)(cid:2869) relative the keyword.
Its iterative stationary probability equations where p(v|u) denotes the transaction probability from the node u to node v, pv denotes the prior probability of node v and   denotes the back probability.
A controlled user study based on 30 students show that more than 80% of the participants preferred our semantic relatedness results to those provided by traditional image search interface.
87% said that the obtained relatedness helps them to learn more about the collection.
73% found CKSGIS is more flexible, and 73% found that, it is easier to use.
These results indicate that our semantic graph based approach is a promising method for users to use in their daily life search tasks.
To the best of our knowledge, we are the first team to explicitly use Wikipedia s social network to compute semantic relatedness and to use semantic graphs for image search.
In summary, CKSGIS provides a new method of performing image query with high dimensional semantic relatedness.
The proposed semantic graphs can be used not only for image searches but also for generic information search.
Our early experiments demonstrate the usefulness of the generated semantic graphs.
We see a potential advantage in using such semantic graphs for various search tasks in people s daily search activities.
In the future, we would like to create semantic graphs for use in generic searches and directly fuse the ranked semantic keyword list with search results.
We are also studying the effects of adding personalization and trend prediction to the design.
