Users can choose from a multitude of Internet search engines, which tend to return different results for the same query [4].
Meta search engines address this limitation by combining the results by different engines.
While some meta search engines visually organize the retrieved documents [1, 3, 4, 5], no meta search interface provides users with an overview of the precise overlap between the search engines.
Meta searching can benefit from such a visualization, because: a) it is difficult to predict the quality of coverage for single search engines, which tend to index less than
 methods are more likely to be relevant [2]; c) some engines are more effective than others, depending on the search domain; d) users prefer or trust some engines more than others.
MetaCrystal consists of several overview tools to enable rapid exploration and complex filtering operations.
The Category View groups and shows the number of documents retrieved by different search engine combinations.
Modeled on the InfoCrystal layout [7], the number of documents retrieved by all engines is shown in the center (see Figure 1).
Shape (size), color, proximity and orientation coding are used to visually organize the different Copyright is held by the author/owner(s).
Lycos
 Lycos Google Teoma AltaVista Google Teoma AltaVista Figure 1: (Top) The Category View shows the overlap between the top 100 items found by Google, Teoma, AltaVista, Lycos & MSN, when searching for  information visualization .
(Bottom) If a URL equal to the server address is used to match items, then the overlap increases.
Icons for items retrieved by at least 3 engines are selected.
Shape (size) coding is used for icons (not) selected.
Teoma Lycos AltaVista Google (weight = 1)
 (0.25) Teoma (0.75) search engine combinations.
The number of engines represented by a category icon decreases toward the periphery.
Figure 1 (top) shows that 3 documents are found by all engines; 4 documents are found by Google, AltaVista, Lycos and MSN but not Teoma; and most of the documents are retrieved by only one engine.
To improve the overlap, users can shorten the URL used to match documents.
This reduces the number of unique documents in the result sets being compared, but it can increase the number of documents found by more than one engine (see Figure 1 (bottom)).
The Cluster Bulls-Eye View shows all the retrieved documents; documents found by the same number of engines cluster in the same concentric ring and those with high rankings by the different engines cluster toward the center (see Figure 2).
Shape, color and orientation coding show which engines retrieved a document.
Users can apply different weights to the search engines to create their own ranking functions.
Figure 2 (bottom) shows the resulting clustering of the documents if Google, Teoma, Alta-Vista, Lycos, and MSN are assigned the weights of 1, 0.75, 0.5, 1, and 0.25, respectively.
Search engines commonly display their results as ranked lists, which can only show a limited number of documents.
The RankSpiral View overcomes this limitation by placing all documents along a spiral based on their total ranking scores.
Details-on-demand gives users an immediate sense of a document s content and how the rankings by the different engines contributed to its total ranking score.
MetaCrystal is implemented in Flash using ActionScript.
It enables users to perform complex filtering operations visually to create a short list of potentially relevant documents by: a) selecting only documents retrieved by a specific number of engines; b) specifying Boolean constraints (the Category View represents all possible Boolean queries in disjunctive normal form [6]); c) applying a threshold based on the total ranking score; d) selecting individual category icons or documents by clicking on them.
Users can quickly scan the filtered results view, which shows a document s title, total ranking score and how the different engines contributed to its total ranking score.
In summary, MetaCrystal addresses the problem of the effective fusion of different search results by enabling users to visually combine and filter the top documents retrieved by different search engines.
Its complementary overview tools help users identify documents found by different engine combinations and at the same time scan the top documents retrieved by a single engine.
