The proliferation of social computing services has recently sparked an interest for enhancing the email service with features common in social network applications [5].
Such integration, however, requires a comprehensive understanding of the intrinsic usage characteristics of the email service, and in particular, of the user behavior and how this translates to information  ows through email networks.
This understanding is thus important in order to (i) guide the design of new features for the service overall but also at the email client side, and (ii) to potentially leverage the social network induced by email communications for other online services.
This paper is a step towards this direction.
Speci cally, we present results of an extensive study of  behavioral  pro les that characterize users, their actions in processing emails, and properties of the exchanged emails.
By behavioral we refer to characteristics that describe interactions of corre-Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Committee (IW3C2).
Distribution of these papers is limited to classroom use, and personal use by others.
spondents and properties that reveal speci c human behaviors.
Our goal is to investigate to what extent these pro les may inform the design of advanced email features such as email prioritization, recommendation and  ltering mechanisms, or expert  nding and people search by exploiting the email social graph.
Our study is based on the analysis of emails exchanged in a large-scale, multinational corporation with more than
 surement trace covers the email communications of all employees for a period of three months amounting to roughly
 tionships and how these a ect the overall information  ow, we also leverage side information such as the global enterprise organizational structure.
Overall, our study is predominantly driven by exploring design possibilities focusing on two main questions that we feel are of particular relevance to enterprise environments: Q1: What do replies depend on?
Can we predict the email response time (Section 3.1), and which emails will be replied (Section 3.2)?
and Q2: What is the gain if contact lists are augmented with contacts derived from  friends-of-friends  relationships of the email social graph (Section 4)?
With regards to Q1, we determined that the email reply probability depends on a set of factors related both to the correspondents (i.e., sender and receiver), but also to their interactions.
Of these factors, the recipient list size appears to be the most important, followed by the rate of emails between the receiver and the sender, the organizational distance between the correspondents, and the elapsed time since the last email activity of the receiver.
Through analysis of variance we show that while conditioning on one of these factors provides moderate prediction gains, combining factors provides signi cant gains with respect to predicting replied emails.
Replies constitute only a small portion of sent emails, surprisingly, as little as 3% on average.
Furthermore, we note the signi cance of recency and in general the e ect of the receive time, and time-of-day periodicity on the reply probability and the time it takes for a user to reply to a received email.
These  ndings suggest that from a sender point of view, it does matter when an email is sent, not only to receive a prompt reply, but also to receive a reply in the  rst place.
The signi cance of the recency factor con rms claims tize emails with respect to recency.
However, it is surprising to observe the rather dramatic decrease of the probability of reply with the inactivity period of the receiver over the timescale of one hour.
Finally, we identify a  congestion collapse  type of dependence of the probability of reply on both the rate of emails from the receiver to sender and from the sender to receiver.
The probability of reply tends to increase with sender-to-receiver email volume up to a threshold; however, after this threshold, there is a qualitative change with a tendency to smaller values.
With regards to Q2, we highlight that the number of new contacts discovered through friends-of-friends types of relationships in the email graph exhibits diminishing returns for users with large contact lists.
However, we found that typical contact lists comprise tens of contacts, facilitating discovery of order thousands of new contacts through friends-of-friends.
This number appears signi cant and implies that advanced search and  ltering mechanisms would need to complement such a feature to allow the user to take advantage of the augmented contact list.
On the other hand, contacts discovered through friends-of-friends are at the same time limited, when we take into consideration that a contact list of order thousand corresponds to 1% of the total enterprise graph.
This suggests that services such as expert  nding or people search will have to examine contacts that are further than two hops away.
We believe that our  ndings provide insightful observations for application designers with respect to human interactions and behavior as seen through the email service.
To the best of our knowledge, our work is among the  rst to study in large-scale the importance of such behavioral patterns.
We  rst examine the variety of communication pro les across users.
As large-scale enterprises are characterized by employee heterogeneity, we explore to what extent email communications re ect this diversity.
In particular, in the following subsections we describe our datasets, and examine properties such as the information load imposed on users, and the number of correspondents per user.
The results presented in this paper are based on logs from Microsoft Exchange servers that cover email communications for all employees of a large multinational corporation for 3 months.
This global enterprise consists of over 100,000 employees spread across 100 countries and 6 conti- nents.
During the three month period we observe a total of 315 Million emails.
Each log entry speci es the sender and recipients per email, the subject, the sent timestamp, the size of the email in bytes, and other information such as the exchange servers involved, email ids etc.
Hence, this information allows us to examine both internal (within the enterprise) and external communications for each enterprise user over time.
By the information presented in the email subject, we can additionally separate emails that constitute replied (RE) or forwarded (FW) emails.
Note that SPAM emails are rare in our datasets, as SPAM  lters operate before the Exchange Servers that provided the logs for this study; typically only a few (less than ten) SPAM emails are observed per user per month.
With regards to mailing lists, Figure 1: CDFs of sent and received emails per user per day.
The ratio of receive-to-sent emails is approximately 7.
emails to such aliases were expanded to include all recipients of each such email.
We do not exclude these emails from the analysis, since we are interested in the overall information load a user experiences.
Examining whether the various properties of email replies di er between mailing list items and other emails is left for future work.
We further relate information  ow and user behavior to the organizational structure of the enterprise.
To this end, our org-structure dataset provides us with information regarding the names and email aliases of all employees, their physical location and distribution to buildings and o ces across countries, and their organizational title.
Using this information we are able to extract the organizational tree of the enterprise (henceforth referred to as  org-tree ) and identify  report-to  relationships for each user (i.e., identify each user s manager and direct reports).
We use the term  root-distance  to denote the length of the shortest-path of an employee to the root of the organizational tree.
Similarly, we use the term  level-distance  between two employees to refer to the di erence between the length of the shortest-paths (i.e., root-distances) of each of the two employees to the root of the organizational tree (CEO of the enterprise).
In order to examine the email information load generated by and imposed on users, we consider the email volume per user for the three months of our study.
We  nd that the median number of emails sent per user per day is approximately 8 with 10% and 90% quantiles of 0.5 and 24 emails per day respectively.
For the received emails the corresponding numbers amount to 57, 6, and 252 (median and quantiles respectively).
We  nd that one-third of users receive less than 34 emails per day, another one-third of users receive between 34 and 95 emails per day, and the remaining third more than
 al [10], 29% of participants reported to receive less than 50 emails per day (low-volume), 36% reported to receive in between 50 and 100 emails per day (medium-volume), and the remaining 34% of users reported to receive more than 100 users a day (high-volume).
In contrast, we  nd that almost half of users qualify as low volume users   45.25% of users receive less than 50 emails per day.
We also  nd a larger portion of high-volume users than medium-volume   31% vs. 23.75%.
roughly 2 out of the sent emails per day correspond to replies, while forwarded emails amount to just 0.2 emails per day.
We will extensively discuss replied emails in Section 3.
Fig. 1 displays the corresponding Cumulative Distribution Functions (CDF) for the number of sent and received emails per user per day.
The mean numbers of received and sent emails per day per user are 107 and 11 respectively.
Overall, the median ratio of received-to-sent emails is approximately 7, which we have found to be consistent both with the mean recipient list size, and the minimum organizational group size when considering leaf nodes in the organizational tree (i.e., groups of users reporting to the same manager).
The number of correspondents per user is another basic property of email communications.
This property also relates to the  notion  of degree when forming the  social  graph that results from such communications.
Considering only interactions across enterprise users, the median out-degree (i.e., re ecting correspondents of sent emails) is roughly 190 for a period of three months with 10% and 90% quantiles of 13 and 2260.
Similarly, the in-degree median is
 participation in email distribution lists.
As previous studies have also noted [13], applying thresholds on the formation of edges of such an email social graph (i.e., removing edges based on the number of emails sent across two correspondents) can  lter out transient or rare communications that do not reveal  true  communication relationships between users.
For example, applying a threshold of 15 emails (i.e., removing edges that correspond roughly to less than one email per week) results in median in-degree of 34 (quantiles of 5 and 183) and out-degree of 21 (quantiles of 3 and 108).
In Section 4, we will further explore the potential gains of taking advantage of this enterprise social graph to expand user contact lists.
To investigate the e ect of  strong-ties  [13] in the email graph on the generated email  ow, we characterize the top-k correspondents per user based on the frequency of email communications (edge weights).
This property essentially describes the  favorite  correspondents per user.
Additionally, this metric informs the design of both network applications and devices, e.g., by examining the possibility of displaying the favorite correspondents of a user in the limited screen of a mobile device.
Fig. 2 highlights the portion of user-initiated email communications (i.e., sent emails) covered by the top-k correspondents of a particular user.
Fig. 2 shows that roughly half of the users  conversations are covered through the set of the top-6 correspondents (2 and 15 for the 25% and 75% quan-tiles respectively) for half of the user population.
Increasing this number to top-10 correspondents covers more than 60% of emails sent.
These observations provide important clues for the dimensioning of contact list sizes.
Achieving large hit rates, e.g., larger than 50%, requires contact lists of order
 especially attractive for mobile devices.
Information  ow vs. org levels.
As previously discussed, the small number of correspondents per user is consistent with the average group size for the leaves of the organizational tree.
It is thus natural to examine whether the imposed organizational structure in uences email communications between employees, and how this in uence manifests in the email network.
Figure 2: Email sends covered by top-k correspondents.
Top-5 correspondents cover more than 40% sent emails for half of the user population.
Figure 3: Email  ow vs. level-distance between the sender and the receiver.
The  ow is symmetric and decreases exponentially with the level-distance.
We observe that the rate of email  ow decreases exponentially with the level-distance between the correspondents.
Fig 3 displays the number of emails sent versus the level-distance (note that levels increase as we move away for the root).
The  ow is symmetrical with respect to the organizational levels of the correspondents.
To examine whether this symmetry is the result of responses to original emails, we condition on  fresh  emails only, where we exclude all replies.
Even after removing replies, the symmetry is still present in the  ow communications.
Further, the peak of the plot suggests high inter-level communication.
This is con rmed by examining intra-level and inter-level communications, where only a minor asymmetry exists with users of larger root-distances directing more  ow upwards, compared to the  ow users closer to the root send downwards.
We now turn our attention to replied emails.
We examine factors that may determine user s action with respect to a received email, and speci cally, here, replies to emails.
In particular, we study the e ect of several metrics on the (i) reply time, i.e., how much time it takes a user to reply to a received email, and ii) the reply probability, i.e., the probabil-to less than 1% of their received emails, with only 15% of users replying to more than 10%.
ity that a received email will be replied.
Since the content of the emails is not available, our analysis will focus mostly on factors that characterize correspondents, their status within the enterprise, and their interactions over time.
Determining such metrics that a ect email replies may inform the design of email prioritization or  ltering mechanisms, simplifying the email processing for enterprise users.
Our analysis in this section will focus on a random sample of 12,000 users (roughly 10% of all users) for the period of three months.
1
 As discussed in Section 2.2, only a small portion of received emails are actually replied.
In this section, we characterize reply time for all emails that were replied.
By reply time, we refer to the time di erence between the receive time of an email, and the time of the corresponding reply.
We examine the following factors: (i) The email triage referring to prioritization strategies employed by users in handling of the emails, i.e., the order in which emails are processed.
For our purposes, processing of an email refers to an email being replied or forwarded as we cannot observe other actions (e.g., deletions) from our data; (ii) The time required to process an email   for example, comprising the time to read the email and prepare the reply; (iii) The user idle time, e.g., the time of day e ects; and,  nally, (iv) under other factors, we consider the reply time versus the in ow rate of emails for the receiver.
Before examining individual factors, we  rst consider the rate of email replies across users.
In Fig. 4, we display the reply rate per user in decreasing order of the rate.
Note that the median reply rate is roughly 3% with only 15% of users showing a reply rate larger than 10%, and 25% of users having a reply rate less than 1%.
Small reply rates could also re ect the e ect of distribution lists or announcement messages that are broadcasted and rarely replied and are common in enterprises.
Email processing strategies employed by users determine the order by which emails are processed or replied, and thus
 due to the magnitude of our traces.
The results presented here are qualitatively similar when taking multiple samples, and samples of various sizes from our logs.
Figure 5: CDF of the queue position of replied emails.
 ALL  refers additionally to forwarded emails.
can provide hints with regard to the expected reply time.
Understanding email processing strategies is also important for the design of personalized email client applications.
To infer reply strategies, we apply the following procedure.
We form a queue per each distinct user, storing received emails.
Most recent items (emails) are placed at the  rst position (head) of the queue.
Items are departing from the queue if we observe a reply ( RE ) email sent from the speci c user with a subject that matches existing items in the queue (excluding the  RE  characters   also excluding automatic  Out-of-o ce  replies), and the sender of the original email is included in the reply recipient list.
Thus, items may depart from the queue at any order.
Due to the size of the dataset and memory limitations, we had to restrict the queue size to 400 emails.
When the queue is full, the oldest item in the queue is removed (thus creating a small bias in the results for emails that may have been processed after being removed from the queue).
We consider the recency ranks (queue positions) of replied emails   Fig. 5.
The  gure presents the histogram of queue positions for replied items and indicates high bias of processed items towards recently received emails.
The  gure also presents a similar curve ( ALL ) for all processed items in the queue (i.e., after applying a similar procedure for forwarded emails).
In particular, the median recency rank of an email reply is only about 10 with the 90% quantile being at roughly 200 emails.
This recency bias could be the result of several reasons.
For example, users may bias their email views so that recent emails appear higher in the list of received emails; additionally, most users may process emails in a timely manner so typically emails get processed while they are still high ranked with respect to their recency.
Reply time depends signi cantly on the recency rank of the email (Fig. 6).
The  gure indicates that the median email reply time is about 1 day for the emails of recency rank up to 150.
Overall, Fig. 6 implies that email reply times vary rather widely, with reply times exploding as email items are pushed towards the tail of the queue.
In summary, we found indications that email triage strategies employed by the users prioritize recently received emails.
This is in line with previously reported results of surveys [10].
The previous discussion implies that recency is a signi cant factor on the processing order of emails.
Being in an enterprise environment, however, it would be perhaps nat-emails.
Reply times signi cantly increase as the emails are pushed to the tail of the queue.
Figure 7: Email reply time versus level-distance of correspondents.
Squares denote the median values while the stars ones the 90% percentile.
ural to assume that users would reply faster to emails originating from individuals with higher organizational status (e.g., an employee responding to a manager higher up in the organizational hierarchy).
We  nd that this assumption is not supported by our data.
To test this hypothesis, we evaluate whether correlation exists between reply time and the level-distance between the sender and the receiver.
Fig. 7 presents a scatter plot of the level-distance versus the reply time in hours, along with median, and the 10% and 90% quantile values.
We observe that the median email reply time (denoted by the stars in Fig. 7) does not signi cantly depend on the level-distance between the email correspondents.
In fact, the range of email reply times appears to tend to be larger, the smaller the absolute level-distance between the email correspondents is.
The second factor that may impact reply time relates to the time required to process a received email.
This processing time may relate to the time required to (i) read the email, and (ii) prepare its reply.
In our case, the email processing time might be re ected by the size of the received email.
Fig. 8 presents this relationship of email size and reply time as seen in our data.
Clearly, the  gure presents a strong dependency, with the reply time increasing as the email size becomes larger.
In particular, emails larger than 1 Mbyte, most likely containing attachments, take more than 6 hours to reply to, while on the other end, small emails are replied Figure 8: Reply time versus email size.
Larger emails result to higher reply times.
within an hour.
This con rms the suggested hypothesis [10] that users would tend to follow the least-e ort principle in processing of the emails.
While we expect the processing time to exhibit some diurnal and weekly periodicities, it is not clear what exact shape such periodicities would assume and what values would hold during work hours and weekend days, in particular.
Indeed, Fig. 9 left shows a strong weekly periodicity with reply times being considerably larger for emails sent at the end of a work week or weekend days.
Over weekdays, the email reply times vary naturally over the range from less than 1 hour to order half a day.
Perhaps more interestingly, we note that during work hours, the median email reply time appears rather concentrated around a value smaller than 1 hour.
This suggests that employees may use the email service for instant-messenger-like interactions where delays of a few minutes are acceptable (e.g., we identi ed several such cases with emails related to eliciting participation to a group lunch).
This is further con rmed by Fig. 9 right, which presents the CDF of the reply time for all replied emails.
Fig. 9 right highlights that the reply time for 20% of replied emails is less than 5 minutes.
Overall, combining the time-of-day observations with the recency processing bias implies that emails have a higher probability of being replied to at the beginning or during the working hours.
The size of the queue relates to the information load imposed on the user, where large queues might lead to  information overload  e ects and increased reply times.
We study the relationship between the overall received emails and the reply time.
Interestingly, Fig 10 highlights that the larger the receive rate the smaller the reply time for users that receive a large number of emails per day (for example, more than 30 emails per day).
There are at least two possible explanations for such an e ect.
First, email is a signi cant portion of the work activity for some users requiring timely replies.
Indeed, examining the roles of users with high receive rates and small reply times reveals that a signi cant portion corresponds to management roles.
Second, this effect could be attributed to users engaging in conversations through email, forming a sequence of received and replied emails within short time intervals.
Summarizing the discussion in this section, we  nd that reply time depends strongly on time of the day e ects, as the middle is a zoomed version of the one on the left.
RIGHT: CDF of email reply time.
The reply time for 20% of replied emails is less than 5 minutes.
Figure 10: Reply time vs. the information load as seen by the number of received emails per day.
For large receive rates, reply times decrease.
Figure 11: Probability of reply conditional on the number of recipients.
well as the recency of the email received.
Reply times increase with the size but appear to decrease with the information load for large receive rates.
Finally, despite examining an enterprise environment, org structure does not appear to directly impact the reply time.
In this section, we analyze the in uence of several factors on the probability of reply to an email.
Our analysis aims at identifying which factors can best predict the probability of reply to an email.
To this end, we  rst perform a visual exploration of the probability of reply conditional on each of the factors.
This study already suggests qualitative dependencies.
We further conduct quantitative analysis of variance to evaluate the quality of predictions of individual factors and their combinations.
This factorial analysis is motivated by the possibility of a  reply-to  recommendation functionality that would assist users in the email triage process.
In particular, we consider the following factors:

 sender;
 as the maximum hop distance until the  rst common ancestor node in the org tree; we refer to this distance metric as  ancestor-distance .
the receiver;
 ceiver;

 In addition, we also considered other factors including the identities of senders and receivers.
While the above is a non-exhaustive list of factors that may in uence the probability of a reply, we believe the set captures a wide-range of factors.
For example, factor 6 pro les the sender; factor 4 pro les the receiver; the remaining factors pro le a sender-receiver pair (i.e., edge in the email graph).
Additionally, some factors capture the status of correspondents (e.g., org level) and the level of interaction (e.g., the rate of emails sent between the correspondents).
In the following paragraphs, we analyze factors 1 to 7 and present results that suggest that all factors are signi cant in the descending order of appearance in the above list.
The conditional probability of reply tends to decrease with the number of recipients of an email.
Fig. 11 presents this conditional probability showing the points with the 95%-con dence intervals less than or equal to 0.01 (i.e., small variance).
The probability of reply rapidly decreases with the number of recipients; for example, for emails with 3 recipients the probability drops to about a half compared to emails with 1 recipient; further, for 20 recipients, we have an order of magnitude decrease.
We also observe some noticeable spikes for order 1000 recipients which likely correspond to replies to email lists.
number of emails from receiver to sender.
Figure 14: Probability of reply conditional on the time elapsed since the receiver was last active.
lationships (i.e., one of the correspondents reporting to the other), we set the ancestor-distance to 0.
For example, two employees are at ancestor-distance 1 if they report to the same manager.
Fig. 13 reveals roughly a probability of 13% to respond to a sender that is at ancestor-distance 0.
The probability is about 8% for ancestor-distances 2 and 3 and assumes smaller values for large ancestor-distances.
We found the following activity bias.
The probability of reply decreases with the time elapsed since the last observed email activity of the receiver (Fig. 14).
Note that our observation of user s email activity is limited to email send events.
We would expect that an email would be replied more likely if received while the user is active (i.e., processing email).
Due to the observations of small median response time in Section 3.1.3, we expect that the estimated probability of reply time for emails received shortly after an email was sent would be larger because of the potential instant-messenger like conversations among employees through email.
Indeed, we found that the probability of email reply to an email received shortly after an email was sent is roughly 0.1 and drops to about half if received 10 minutes after an email was sent.
The probability of email reply drops for an order of magnitude if received about 6 hours after an email was sent.
This appears aligned with the diurnal periodicity.
While it is intuitive to expect that the probability of email reply would decrease with the duration of email inactivity of the receiver due to the accumulated email processing load, it is surprising to  nd the observed magnitude of decrease over the timescale of 1 hour.
These results suggest that users prioritize processing emails with respect to recency and is consistent with the recency bias observed in Section 3.1.
The activity bias suggests that from an email sender viewpoint, it does matter when an email is sent, not only to expect a prompt reply, but also in order to elicit a reply in the  rst place!
For this factor we observe the same qualitative properties as for the receiver-to-sender activity (Section 3.2.2).
Thus, we only discuss the di erences here.
We  nd that, overall, the conditional probability is of smaller magnitude compared to the receiver-to-sender interaction (Fig. 15).
The maximum likelihood threshold is smaller with 1 email per day or about 1.7 emails per work day with the 95%-con dence interval of 0.7 to 1.6 emails per day.
Figure 13: Probability of reply conditional on the ancestor-distance between sender and receiver.
The probability of the email reply conditioned on the rate of email  ow from the receiver to sender exhibits the following threshold behavior (see Fig. 12).
The probability of email reply increases with diminishing returns (in particular, the growth is logarithmic) with the rate of the email  ow from the receiver to sender up to a threshold.
Beyond this threshold, there is a qualitative change of the dependence, with a deviation from the linear dependence in the logarithmic scale and a tendency towards smaller values.
We estimate the value of the threshold by a linear regression model where the relation between the email rate and the probability of reply is assumed to be a concatenation of two linear segments intersecting at a threshold value.
This de nes a family of models indexed by the threshold value.
We choose the model with the maximum likelihood estimate of the threshold [3] which results in an estimate of about 2.8 emails per day, or 4.3 emails per work day; the 95%-con dence interval ranges from 2.3 to 3.5 emails per day.
The above analysis suggests a  congestion collapse  type of dependence where the reply probability increases up to a threshold and decreases beyond.
It would be natural to argue that the value of the threshold could be interpreted as the capacity of information processing by users.
We found evidence of the following homophily bias.
The probability of reply tends to decrease with the ancestor-distance between the correspondents.
For  report-to  renumber of emails from sender to receiver.
Figure 17: Probability of reply conditional on the sender identity.
Figure 16: Probability of reply conditional on the sender level.
The observed threshold phenomena suggests existence of a threshold on the rate of emails sent to a correspondent beyond which there is an adverse e ect on eliciting a reply.
By visual inspection of Fig. 16, we observe that the dependence of the probability of reply on the sender level does not present any monotonic patterns with a notable spike centered around at sender level 5.
We have also examined the dependence on the identity of the sender.
Fig. 17 demonstrates that there is a dependence on the sender identity, indicating large diversity across user pro les.
Fig. 18 shows the estimated probability of reply conditional on the email size.
As in the previous  gures, the reported points are the ones with 95%-con dence intervals less than or equal to 0.01.
We observe that the probability of reply grows from about 0.005 to 0.3 over the interval from 1 to 10 KB and then remains concentrated at around 0.3 over the interval from 10 to 100 KB.
We also observe some spikes at around 500 KB with values roughly at 0.07.
To examine the signi cance of these factors more rigorously and obtain an estimate of error should these factors were used to predict a reply, we conducted one-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) on a random sample of 0.5M emails.
The analysis was performed for discrete values of factors ob-Figure 18: Probability of reply conditional on the email size.
tained by log binning and rounding of the original values to limit the number of values for factors such as email size.
For factors 1 to 7, ANOVA analysis resulted in p-values equal to zero and F values ranging from 275 to 4325 indicating that all factors are important.
The orders of factors in decreasing F value and increasing mean square value are the same and follow the discussion order over the previous sections from the most to the least signi cant according to the test.
The mean square values span the range of values from
 unconditional probability of reply that amounts to 0.0344 which corresponds to the mean prediction error of about
 we obtain a moderate gain of about 5%.
We also ran a two-way analysis of variance over all distinct pairs of factors for random samples of 20,000 emails obtaining consistent results.
In summary, based on the p-values, we observed that all the factors are signi cant, with the exception of the sender level combined with the recipient list size or the ancestor distance.
The four factor pairs with the smallest mean square error all contain the recipient list size factor, which, recall, was already found to be most signi cant by one-way analysis of variance.
The smallest mean square error was obtained by combining the recipient list size with the email size, equal to 0.287 corresponding to 21.60% prediction gain.
In summary, we found that individual factors yield moderate gain with respect to the prediction error and that this can be signi cantly improved by conditioning on more than one factor.
We have attempted further running ANOVA list size.
The number of new contacts grows linearly up to roughly contact list sizes of order 100.
RIGHT: CDFs of new contacts discovered per local contact for two edge thresholds in the email graph.
About 100 new contacts can be discovered through roughly 80% of the local contacts.
combinations of several factors, for example combinations of three or more.
However due to the explosion of the combinations of values for the various factors, processing was not feasible with nontrivial sample sizes (more than a few tens per combinations of values).
Most contemporary email client applications are limited to extracting information from  local  emails, either sent or received by the the speci c user.
Using this local knowledge, these clients then support features for processing emails and other business-related tasks through email.
Use of global information, for example a company s address book, is sometimes present but is rather employed for a limited set of tasks, such as meeting requests or sharing of basic information (e.g., business titles).
We believe that email clients and the email service in general could greatly bene t by information extracted from several email users and aggregated through collaborative  l-tering techniques.
Such a service could support advanced features, present in most of today s social networks, such as expert  nder, people search, etc.
Thus, integration of social-networking features such as discovery of new contacts or information sharing among friends appears attractive.
Motivated by these potentials, we explore here the extent to which the graph induced by email communications can support discovery of new contacts.
Speci cally, we are interested in the two-hop relationships in the email graph, namely the friends-of-friends (or contacts-of-contacts) relationships.
To this end, we consider two di erent viewpoints.
First, we examine how much a local contact list of a speci c user can be augmented by new contacts discovered from this user s one-hop neighbors.
Second, we consider the discovery of new contacts per contact, i.e., the augmentation of the contact list conditioning on selected users.
This viewpoint is similarly of interest in scenarios of search or  ltering friends-of-friends for selected contacts.
Fig. 19-left presents the number of new contacts a local contact list could be augmented with by adding friends-of-friends versus the size of the original contact list per user.
For this analysis, we consider thresholding of 15 emails per edge as described in Section 2.2 to identify true contact relationships.
We observe that the number of new contacts increases with diminishing returns with the size of the contact list.
This is expected; if the graph was a balanced tree with branching factor b, then the number of new contacts would be equal to b2, which is equal to the number of second-hop neighbors.
Otherwise, the growth would be slower due to the existence of triads in the email graph, i.e., loops of length three hops.
Indeed, examining Fig 19-left, we note that the median number of new contacts follows a linear growth conditional on the contact list size of up to order 100 consistent roughly with a treelike structure.
For a contact list size of order 100, the number of new contacts from friends-of-friends is about two orders of magnitude larger compared to the size of the local contact list.
Considering that a typical user in our data has a contact list of size 60, this allows a discovery of about 2,000 new contacts according to Fig. 19.
While this number appears rather large, it corresponds to only an
 handling 2,000 new contacts would require e cient search and  ltering features to assist the user.
We turn now our attention to the new contacts discovered per contact in the contact list.
Fig. 19-right shows the empirical cumulative distribution function for the number of new contacts discovered per contact for two edge thresholds of 15 and 20.
In both cases, we observe qualitatively the same behavior.
The median number of contacts discovered is approximately 20 and about 80% of the users s  rst-hop contacts can o er less than 100 new contacts.
This suggests that the number of new contacts discovered from a local contact may not necessitate sophisticated processing tools.
While there has been various studies that consider email graphs, analysis has thus far concentrated on the graph structures and their evolution over time.
In particular, Adami c and Adar [1] studied the performance of greedy forwarding algorithms and provided empirical performance results for the email communication graph of a moderate-size enterprise that employed about 400 employees.
In particular, an edge of the graph was formed between two individuals if and only if they exchanged at least 6 emails over a course of 3 months (1/2 emails per week, on average).
They found that the greedy forwarding that biases to next-hop with the largest degree performs poorly and argued that this is because of the exponential decay of the degree distribution.
In contrast, the greedy scheme that distance to the destination node was found to perform well.
Our work di ers both on the focus, and also the scale of our study.
Our analysis concentrates on examining the potential of augmenting the email service with social-networking type of features.
The scale of our study is considerably larger as we consider a global, large-scale enterprise with more than 100,000 employees.
Additionally, Kossinets and Watts, as well as Eckmann et al. examined the structure of email graphs and its evolution over time [8, 9, 7].
These studies are concerned more with the temporal evolution of the relationships in email graphs; instead, our work focuses on pro ling the nodes (email correspondents) and their interactions.
Part of our work on the understanding the  ow of emails and its relation to the underlying organizational structure and user pro les is related to sociological literature such as that of Allen and Cohen [2].
Therein, authors considered interactions as they happen in research laboratories.
The main factors that determine information  ow are identi ed as (a) organizational structure and (b) through  technological gatekeepers .
Another related work is that of Sproull and Kiesler [14] that, in particular, suggested that email promotes status equalization within the medium.
While from our data we cannot test this hypothesis, our results suggest symmetry in email  ow between correspondents at di erent organizational levels.
Email processing strategies have been examined through user studies such as that of Venoila et al [17], Tyler et al[15], or Neustadter et al [11].
These works consider factors such as the status of the correspondent or the email importance.
Our work is instead based on measurable data of user actions, and considers a broader set of factors in a larger-scale measurement of user behavior regarding the email service.
Finally, we point to the line of work on the general problem of ranking expertise and interest that, in particular, considered graphs induced by email communications, e.g., [12,
 dimensions, our focus is not on expertize ranking.
Other related work is that of Tyler et al [16], which considers clustering of an email graph in communities.
We presented analysis of behavioral pro les observed in usage of emails in enterprise scenarios.
We focused on understanding which factors in uence email replies, and assessed their signi cance.
We observed that only a small portion of email-send events corresponds to replies.
We demonstrated that the prediction of email reply can already be improved by simple models that condition on values of a few factors, most notably the recipient list size and the email size.
We also focused on evaluating the augmentation of contact lists with new contacts taken from the friends-of-friends relationships in the email social graph.
This would be of interest for an advanced email service, complemented with social-networking features.
Future work may study other prediction models for email replies.
In particular, of interest would be online learning models, that would account for possible temporal correlations in the email behavior of individual users.
Complementing such analysis with results of a user study would enable detailed observations of email processing strategies, and how user interface designs impact human behavior.
