Frequent update and enhancement of lexicon is always welcomed by lexicon users.
However, lexicons are rarely updated because it requires a lot of human labor.
A solution is replacement of human labor with a computer program.
Automatic compilation of lexicon is a dream of lexicon compilers as well as lexicon users.
In this paper, we report an attempt of automatic compilation of a bilingual lexicon from the Web.
We have selected English-Japanese (Latin-Katakana) person-name lexicon as a target of automatic compilation because of the following reasons.
son name translation is a serious problem for human translators.
In English-Japanese translation, person Copyright is held by the author/owner(s).
names written in Latin script are transliterated into one in Katakana script according to their pronunciations.
English-Japanese transliteration of person name is di cult because of several reasons, such as limited coverage of existing bilingual lexicons, non-English (e.g., French and German) person names appeared in English texts, and spelling variants in Katakana script.
Japanese person-name lexicon from the Web, because a lot of transliteration instances of person names exist on the Web.
Actually, human translators use the Web as a virtual low-quality bilingual lexicon.
transliterations are produced in every day.
Human translators hope frequent update of bilingual person-name lexicon.
This paper proposes a system that crawls English-Japanese person-name transliterations from the Web, which works as a back-end collector for automatic lexicon compilation.
From collected transliterations, a bilingual person-name lexicon is produced by an automatic post processing.
This attempt of automatic lexicon compilation can be viewed as a conversion from a virtual low-quality bilingual lexicon (i.e., the Web) to a real high-quality bilingual lexicon.
Figure 1 shows an overview of the system, Tsumugi Crawler.
The system consists of four components: (1) person-name pool, which keeps monolingual (English or Japanese) person names to be searched.
(2) Tsumugi Finder, which searches transliterations (or back-transliterations) of a monolingual (3) PN- lter, a person-name  lter, which person name.
(4) transliteration selects person-names from candidates.
database, which keeps collected transliteration pairs.
The central component of the system is the Tsumugi Finder.
First, the Finder picks a monolingual person name from the person-name pool, and sends it to Yahoo Japan! s search engine and obtains the search results (100 snippets in Japanese).
Because Japanese texts frequently include partially bilingual texts, as Nagata et al.[2] reported, it is highly expected that the obtained snippets include (back-)transliterations of the person name of the search query.
From the obtained snippets, S lter extracts strings that satisfy a prede ned style requirement of person name.
We have de ned a person name as a term that consists of a  rst
 person-name pool ?
monolingual person name ?
Yahoo Japan! s search engine ?
search result (100 snippets) ?
S lter ?
T lter ?
R lter ?
?
PN- lter ?
monolingual person names ?
Tsumugi Finder (back-)transliterations -?
transliterations database Figure 1: Overview of Tsumugi Crawler name and a last name, and optionally a middle name.
The style requirement is implemented by two regular expressions: one for English, the other for Japanese.
T lter checks transliteration correspondence between the person name (input) and every candidate produced by S lter.
T lter uses transliteration score between an English term and a Japanese term [3], which is an estimated pronunciation similarity of two terms.
T lter removes a hopeless candidates whose score is less than the predetermined threshold.
R lter sorts remaining candidates based on their frequencies in the snippets.
It always passes the  rst-ranked candidates; it also passes a few hopeful candidates as spelling variants of the  rst-ranked candidate.
Finally, the obtained transliteration pairs are stored into the transliteration database.
The snippets obtained in the above process are also used as a source from which the system collects new monolingual person names.
Monolingual person names are obtained by applying PN- lter [1] to the candidates produced by S lter and they are stored into the person-name pool.
Tsumugi Crawler collected 561K transliterations in  ve months run.
The  nal bilingual lexicon was produced by the following post processing.
the collected transliterations.
(561K   558K)
 transliteration.
The forward rank of a transliteration pair ti = (cid:3)en, jai(cid:4) is a rank among the competitive ti; the rank is determined by the estimated fre-set [ i quency calculated from the hit counts of  en and jai .
When ti is in the  rst rank, jai is the best (frequently used) transliteration of en.
A backward rank is calculated by the same way but reverse direction.
out other transliterations.
(558K   454K) Type-1 (standard transliteration) transliteration that has the  rst forward rank and the  rst backward rank.
Type-2 (transliteration variant) transliteration that has the  rst forward rank or the  rst backward rank (except type-1).
quency is 0.
(454K   441K)
 transliterations.
(441K   406K) The size of the produced lexicon is 406,416 (type-1 entries = 286,047, type-2 entries = 120,369; English spellings =
 Typical size of existing book-style English-Japanese person-name dictionary is around 20,000.
HeiNER[4] provides bilingual lexicon of named entities, which was compiled from inter-language links of Wikipedia.
The size of English-Japanese lexicon of HeiNER is 125,053, which includes other types of name entities such as place, product, and company.
The size of the largest database of English-Japanese person-name that we know is 175,000, which is sold by a database company.
Our lexicon is much larger than these existing resources.
Because of the large size, evaluation of our lexicon is di cult and time-consuming.
We have conducted a preliminary evaluation of precision, where 420 type-1 entries have been examined by a human evaluator.
We have obtained the result that 390 (93%) entries are correct and 30 (7%) entries are incorrect (they are correct transliteration pairs of other types of named entities).
Evaluation of recall of our lexicon is much di cult because we do not know the total size of English-Japanese person-name transliterations on the Web.
We have conducted a rough estimation by using a set of known transliterations extracted from four English books and their Japanese translations.
Among 658 known transliterations that can be found by Yahoo Japan! s search engine, 431 (65.5%) transliterations have been already recorded in our lexicon.
This research has been supported by the Kayamori Foundation of Informational Science Advancement.
