During the 2004 US Presidential election, the notion of  ip- opping  was made salient, but despite analyses[2, 3, 4] of speeches given by both candidates in the  nal months before the election, the  ip- opper  label was not applied equally.
In this work, we aim to provide a nonpartisan, unbiased, method of viewing how public statements on issues change over time as well as how statements correlate with the politicians  votes on these issues.
This is useful for voters who value consistency and want to be aware of candidates  histories, as well as for holding politicians accountable for their statement histories both before and after elections.
Ideally, if this could be done in an automated way, for any politician or candidate, as the news is happening, any person could check the facts for themselves immediately - rather than having just a feeling that rhetoric has changed.
On the other side of things, if politicians are aware that anyone can check on their histories in a simple way, we may avoid this shift in arguments and rationale.
We present our  rst work toward this end, PSST (Political Statement and Support Tracker), a web-based system currently allowing analysis many of the candidates in the 2008 United States Presidential election, and President Bush, on a set of issues and key votes.
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s).
The main steps of PSST are: (1) Retrieving webpages with speeches, press releases, and votes (2) Extracting relevant quotes from the texts and relating these to political issues (3) Displaying the statements and voting histories.
In order to analyze candidates  consistency on issues we gathered speech transcripts from their o cial websites, and later examined these to determine their focus and  nd statements on particular issues.
Voting records were also gathered and similarly analyzed.
By using the politicians  own words, we obtain a truer representation of their publicly stated positions, not  ltered through the lens of the media.
As valid RSS feeds of speeches do not exist for all candidates, and news stories proved to be too ambiguous, we restricted the system to a pre-de ned subset of all political  gures.
The candidates and politicians currently supported in the PSST system are: George Bush, Hillary Clinton, John Edwards, John McCain, Barack Obama, Mitt Romney, and Fred Thompson.
These were the top candidates, according to polls at the time, for which speech transcripts were available.
A full list of data sources is given on the project web site.
Similarly, for politicians with voting histories, key votes were retrieved from the Project Vote Smart website.1
 In the second phase of PSST, key phrases are extracted from the texts and then linked with issues.
Here Extrac-tor[1][5] was used for key phrase extraction, as well as for identifying the supporting text of those key phrases.
Given a link to a speech, Extractor returns a list of the key phrases in the speech and, for each phrase, a list of the sentences in the text that support that phrase.
These phrases represent the topic of the text.
For example, a speech about health care policy may return phrases such as  insurance companies  and  health.  Other techniques for identifying key phrases, such as TF-IDF, tend to focus on unusual or frequently used words that do not always accurately describe the speech s focus.
PSST compares the key phrases found by Extractor with a list of words and phrases that we have manually identi ed as relating to speci ed political issues (e.g.
campaign  nance, the environment, etc.).
For each occurrence of such a phrase in the speech, PSST searches the surrounding sentences for any additional signi cant phrases that might indicate other relevant issues.
(See website for full list of issues supported).
1www.vote-smart.org
 Rather than simply doing a search on Google for a politician or issue, a user can immediately  nd all statements for multiple candidates on the topics that interest them.
We were able to identify inconsistencies such as changes in President Bush s arguments for war with Iraq, Senator Clinton s statements on bringing troops home versus her votes against redeployment, and Senator McCain s rationale for a vote against a health care bill after stating the importance of health care reform.
However, it does not succeed in all areas.
In some cases, particularly with categorizing votes based solely on their titles, there were misclassi cations.
For example  Healthy Forests Restoration Act of 2003  was included in the health category due to the string  health  appearing in the title.
Another issue is that phrases pertaining to multiple issues may be only identi ed in their primary context, as the project favors precision in the main topic of the text over recall.
Finally, we note that while new statements and votes are being added as they occur, the system is currently closed in terms of the candidates and issues supported.
Adding a new candidate or politician currently requires identifying data sources for them, analyzing their structure, and writing code that can parse them.
This system is quite vulnerable to small changes in the web page s structure.
If, in the future, all candidates support a standardized format to disseminate their views (e.g., using RSS feeds) and provide transcripts in a common layout, this would enable PSST to support very  exible queries involving a nearly unlimited number of politicians without any manual intervention.
Adapting the system to a di erent country or set of candidates would then involve simply updating the issues, as some may be more or less relevant in the future and new issues may arise.
We presented PSST, a system for the analysis of political statements and votes, currently implemented for a pre-de ned set of politicians and issues.
Preliminary experiments support the validity of the approach.
We plan to make improvements in the characterization of statements, integration of other data sources, and facilitation of expansion to include new candidates and issues.
The project is located at: http://cs.nyu.edu/ samantha/search/psst.html

 The authors would like to thank Ernest Davis for helpful discussions.
