Information spreading plays an essential role in numerous human interactions, including the spread of innovations [32, 30], knowledge and information security management [15], social in uence in marketing [10, 21, 25], and more.
Thanks to the increasing availability of large-scale data, we have witnessed great advances in understanding how information propagates from person to person, ranging from in-centivized word-of-mouth e ects when recommending products [25, 19], to understanding how a single piece of information forms internet chain letters on a global scale [27].
Despite recent studies in online social networks [25, 2, 16, 26], it has been di cult to obtain detailed traces of in formation dissemination alongside relevant contextual data Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Committee (IW3C2).
Distribution of these papers is limited to classroom use, and personal use by others.
such as people s real social connections, their behavioral pro les, and job roles in organizations.
Therefore, an important question is largely unanswered: to what extent do spreading processes depend on the underlying social network and behavioral pro les of individuals.
Indeed, on one hand, information such as rumors, innovations and opinions di uses through the underlying social networks.
To whom and to how many people a user would pass such information is constrained by whom s/he connects to and how well s/he is connected in the social network, and the strength of those connections.
On the other hand, the population-based heterogeneity in personal pro les coexists with complex connec-tivities between individuals, raising questions about to what degree the diverse pro les of individuals, from personal interests and expertise to communities and hierarchy, impact the information spreading process.
Understanding the role of these features is of fundamental importance.
The lack of contextual information could change drastically, however, thanks to the pervasive use of email communications in well-documented settings, such as corporate work forces [11, 28, 12, 38, 4, 1, 22, 20].
Indeed, emails have become the most important communication method in various settings [36, 28], unveiling detailed traces of social interactions among large populations.
Previous studies [36, 6] have shown that email communications serve as a good indicator of social ties.
Forwarded emails [29], written by someone other than the sender and sent to someone who was not included in the original email, serve as an ideal proxy for the information spreading process, where the single piece of information, the original body of the email, is passed through the social network.
We compiled a new dataset by integrating two related but distinct data structures, collected from a large-scale, privacy-preserving distributed social sensor system.
First, we collected two years of email communication data from 8, 952 volunteer employees within a large technology  rm operating in more than 70 countries.
Emails occupy the majority of information workers  time and thus provide high-quality observation of the social context, i.e., the real social connections of employees in the workplace [36, 6].
In addition to such  informal networks,  we investigated the  formal networks,  imposed by the corporation such as their hierarchical structure, as well as demographic data such as geography, job role, self-speci ed interests, performance, etc.
This dataset provides us unique opportunities to study the interplay between the information spreading and its context.
This issue is largely not addressed in previous studies par-di culty in matching user IDs across multiple sources.
Speci cally, we investigate the impact of context on spreading processes in two levels:   At the microscopic level, we are interested in the behaviors of each individual in the spreading process, e.g.
to whom and how fast does a user forward information?
(Sec.
4)   At the macroscopic level, we ask what are the structural properties of the spreading processes?
And what is the best model for the observed structures?
(Sec.
5) At the microscopic level, we  nd that information spreading is indeed highly dependent on social context as well as the individuals  behavioral pro les.
Macroscopically, however, we  nd that the tree structures observed in the spreading process can be accurately captured by a simple stochastic branching model, indicating the macroscopic structures of spreading processes, i.e., to how many people a user forwards the information and the overall coverage of the information, are largely independent of context and follow a simple reproducible pattern.
To the best of our knowledge, this work presents the  rst comprehensive analysis of the determining factors a ecting information spreading processes.
We believe our  ndings are of fundamental importance in developing prediction models for information  ow, provide new insights towards the design of our social and collaborative applications, such as assisting users to disseminate information more e ciently, protecting digital information leakage, and promoting spreading strategies to achieve expected coverage.
In this section, we review three categories of related work: studies on information spreading and cascades, social network analysis especially on emails, and virus propagation.
Information Spreading and Cascades.
Various studies in online domains have been conducted to understand the structural properties of information  ow.
Among them, the spreading processes of speci c pieces of information, including studies on internet chain letters and viral marketing, are most related to our work.
Liben-Nowell and Kleinberg [27] studied information  ows on a global scale using internet chain letters.
They found that the structures of observed trees are narrow and deep.
They proposed a probabilistic model, leveraging the structure of other social networks, to explain the deep treelike structure.
Golub and Jackson [13] then showed that the structures observed in [27] could be explained by the Galton-Watson branching model [35] combined with the selection bias of observing only the largest trees.
Leskovec, Adamic and Huberman [25] studied an in-centivized word-of-mouth e ect by analyzing viral marketing data, focusing on the overall properties of the resulting recommendation network and its dynamics.
By using data from a viral experiment of recommending newsletters, Iribarren and Moro [19] modeled the overall dynamics of information  ow from individual activity patterns.
There has been extensive work done in the blog domains about cascading behaviors [24, 2, 16, 26], and several models have been proposed to capture the structure of the blogosphere.
Previous work focuses on analyzing the observed properties of information  ows.
In contrast, the questions we are interested in this study are Why does information spread?
What are the factors that could potentially a ect this process?
Emails.
Much work has focused on email communication records, from their static topological structure [11, 1] to dynamic properties [12, 4, 33, 22, 19].
These works focus on the overall structure of the social network, or on the timing of events.
Recently, Karagiannis and Vojnovic [20] studied the behavioral patterns of email usage in a large-scale enterprise by looking at email replies.
They examined various factors that could potentially a ect email replies, focusing on pairwise interactions and aiming to inform the design of advanced features.
Our approach presents a new angle to using email data.
First, we treat social networks as the backbone of the spreading processes, using the network topology to inspect the structures of information spreading and to assess models.
Second, the spreading processes we study go beyond the pairwise interactions of email replies, representing richer structural properties.
Virus Propagation.
There is much literature regarding virus propagation.
To name a few, Hethcote [18] studied the epidemic threshold for cliques.
Briesemeister et al [7] studied the virus propagation on power law graphs by simulations.
Most recent research has been devoted to real, arbitrary graphs.
For example, Wang et al. [34] gave the analytic epidemic threshold for an arbitrary graph.
Based on that, Tong et al [31] proposed an e ective immunization strategy by approximately maximizing that threshold.
Virus propagation, although bearing some high level similarity to spreading of information, is not selective, meaning that a better connected individual in the network will infect more people.
Information, on the other hand, spreads purposefully, representing a more complex behavior.
Indeed, in our study we investigate the factors that a ect to whom, and to how many people, a user forwards information, exploring the selective process of information spreading.
In this section, we describe the datasets used in our study and present the basic properties of the dataset.
We collected detailed electronic communication records of 8, 952 volunteer employees in more than 70 countries over a two-year period within a large global technology company with over 400, 000 employees.
Each log entry speci es the sender and receiver(s) of the message, a timestamp, the subject, and the content of the body of the email.
To preserve privacy1, the email addresses of users are hashed, and the original textual content in email s body was not saved.
Instead, this content is represented as a term-frequency vector containing the terms that appear in the text as well as their counts after stemming and removal of stop-words.
During the two year period, we observe about 20 million emails sent by our users.
For the same population, we gathered information specifying a range of personal attributes (gender, job role, departmental a liation and report-to relation with managers, and more).
We also collected detailed  nancial performance data for more than 10,000 consultants in the company.
These consultants generate revenue by logging 1refer to [37] for more information about privacy related solutions a
 l s y e t v i l e i b
 a y b t o i v r
 i t c
 All emails Forwarded emails



 hours of a week


 Tue Wed Thu Fri Afternoon Weekends

 (cid:4) (cid:3) (cid:2) (cid:1) b Mon Morning o (cid:14) (cid:15) i t a
 (cid:13) (cid:17) (cid:12) (cid:11) (cid:16) (cid:10) Figure 1: Activity levels at di erent times of the week for email forwarding activities and overall email tra c (cid:2)(cid:6)(cid:8) in (a), and ratios of the two in (b).
The ratios in weekends are omitted due to the low volumes.
(cid:2)(cid:3)(cid:1) (cid:2)(cid:5)(cid:5) (cid:9)(cid:6) (cid:3)(cid:5) (cid:1)(cid:2) (cid:1) (cid:5)(cid:8) (cid:7)(cid:3)  billable hours .
It has been found that a consultant s ability to generate revenue is an appropriate productivity measure [39].
Therefore, we measure performance of individuals with the total US dollars a consultant generated from June
 nication data yields a total of 1,029 consultants for whom we have both email and  nancial records.
The identities of participants were hashed.
As we are interested in how a speci c piece of information spreads, we further processed our dataset using the following procedures.
We started by looking for the string Fw: in the beginning of each email subject title.
This process gives us all the emails that were forwarded.
We then grouped emails with the same subject title together, reconstructing the original threads.
Each forwarded thread results in an information spreading tree structure, where the single piece of information, the original body of the email, was passed from one to others.
Our dataset provides us with 9, 623 such distinct threads, the starting point of our study.
As our dataset captures communication within an enterprise, the temporal patterns and the organizational roles of individuals involved may indicate the importance of forwarded emails.
We show in Fig. 1a the activity levels, the number of communications in each hour of the week normalized by the total number of communications in a week.
We observe a clearly periodic pattern.
Communication builds up in the morning and decays in the afternoon with a notable dip at noon indicating the lunch time.
There are two interesting points we want to make here.
First, while the activity levels of forwarded emails (red squares) follow a similar periodic pattern to the overall email tra c (blue circles), their activity levels are signi cantly higher than the normal email tra c on workday mornings, especially on Mondays, and lower in the afternoons especially on Fridays.
This can be seen clearly in Fig. 1b, where we show the ratio of the two curves in Fig. 1a.
The curve goes above 1 in the mornings, but mostly below 1 in the afternoons.
This is a good indicator that forwarded emails are timely and important, representing a special class of overall email tra c.
Second, access to email is limited by weekly schedules.
This weekly cycle becomes important when we inspect the e ciency of information spreading in the following sections.
That is, there is a time delay when forwarding an email after receiving it.
For example, a delay of two days in the delivery of information, when it was received on Friday, could be due to the inability of a user to access his or her email during the weekend.
Therefore, for any calculation regarding time in the following sections, we perform a check by removing the o hours.
Yet no results changed qualitatively.
In addition, we observe that 38% of the forwarded threads involve people from multiple departments.
This suggests that email forwarding is an important means to facilitate cross-organization collaboration.
Moreover, 43% of the emails are forwarded by managers, indicating that email forwarding is a common management tool.
What factors could potentially a ect the information spreading process at the microscopic level, i.e., to whom and how fast a user spreads the information?
Why does some information get rapidly processed and passed on to others, while other information experiences notable delay?
Or more generally, why does some information get forwarded at all in the  rst place?
Here we investigate several aspects of these questions.
Our analysis will focus on the most fundamental building blocks of information spreading   information pathways, as illustrated in Fig. 2.
More speci cally, user A sent an email to user B at a certain time with a speci c title.
Then user B waited for some time and forwarded the message to user C, passing the information, the main body of the email, along via B from A to C. We refer to user A as  initiator , B as  spreader , and C as  receiver .
The dissemination process can be far more complex than this simple case, as we shall see in Section 5, where we focus on spreading processes at the macroscopic level, exploring to what extent the overall structure of spreading processes depends on context.
Yet any spreading tree structures can be reduced to a combination of such information pathways.
Our study shows that not only does the social and organizational context a ect to whom a speci c piece of information is forwarded, but it also a ects how fast it is forwarded.
We found that information undergoes interesting rerouting processes, from weak links to strong ties, and from non-Spreader Receiver
 Aug 5, 09:30:12  data request 
 Aug 5, 09:53:00  Fw: data request 
 Figure 2: An illustrative example of an information pathway.
experts to experts.
The e ciency of the spreading process is a ected by departmental structure, but little by individual performance.
These  ndings can guide us to build better social and collaborative environments, design applications assisting users to disseminate information more e ciently, and develop strategies to protect digital information leakage and predictive tools for recommendation systems.
How information spreads may be in uenced by the underlying social network, and understanding the interplay between the social network and spreading process is very important.
First, it has a number of implications in various social systems, such as promoting new strategies in viral marketing by taking into account the e ect of the network topology.
Second, it plays an important role in assessing the choice of models, arguing whether a  u-like epidemiology model, which directly relies on the topology of the network, is suitable for modeling the information  ow, (see Section 5).
We start by building a social network among our users by aggregating email communications over a one year period.
We add a link between two users if there has been at least one email communication between them.
The weight of the link, w(i   j), is asymmetric, de ned as the number of emails sent from user i to j.
As we are mostly interested in the connectivity between individuals, we focus on the static picture of the network rather than the dynamics of the network evolution.
We show in Fig. 3 the probability ratio of email forwarding activity2 as a function of the weight of the links between initiators and spreaders, w(A   B), and spreaders and receivers, w(B   C), de ned in the information pathways in Fig. 2.
A positive slope would indicate that information is more likely to  ow through strong ties, whereas a negative slope shows that weaker connections are more favorable for the spreading processes.
Surprisingly, we observe that the information is more likely to spread initially via weak ties and then gets passed through strong connections, strong evidence of information routing by spreaders choosing social neighbors of di erent closeness.
This raises an interesting question: how well are the information spreaders connected in the network?
Are they a random sample of individuals or are they a biased sample of more central social hubs?
We show in Fig. 4 the degree distribution P (k) of nodes in the whole social network as grey circles and the sample of spreaders as orange crosses.
Interestingly, we  nd that spreaders show nearly the same 2the probability ratio of email forwarding as a function of quantity q is obtained by P Fw(q)/P rand(q), where P Fw(q) is the probability of having q in forwarded emails, while P rand(q) is the same probability for overall emails.
A value equals to 1 would indicate P Fw(q) is about what you would expect normally.
(cid:5)(cid:3)(cid:9) a (cid:19) (cid:18) (cid:14) (cid:15) (cid:14) (cid:13) (cid:12) (cid:13) (cid:16) (cid:17) (cid:11) (cid:5) (cid:5)(cid:3)(cid:9) b (cid:19) (cid:18) (cid:14) (cid:15) (cid:14) (cid:13) (cid:12) (cid:13) (cid:16) (cid:17) (cid:11) (cid:5) (cid:4)(cid:3)(cid:9) (cid:5)(cid:4)(cid:4) (cid:5)(cid:4)(cid:5) (cid:5)(cid:4)(cid:6) w(cid:1)A(cid:1)(cid:10)B(cid:2) (cid:5)(cid:4)(cid:7) (cid:5)(cid:4)(cid:8) (cid:4)(cid:3)(cid:9) (cid:5)(cid:4)(cid:4) (cid:5)(cid:4)(cid:5) (cid:5)(cid:4)(cid:6) w(cid:1)B(cid:1)(cid:10)C(cid:2) (cid:5)(cid:4)(cid:7) (cid:5)(cid:4)(cid:8) Figure 3: The probability ratio of email forwarding as a function of the weight of links between A and B and B and C respectively in the information pathways.
Information spreading undergoes an interesting rerouting process, from weak links to strong ties.
) k (


 total users users as B
 k

 Figure 4: The degree distribution of the whole network and the group of the spreaders.
The spreaders have comparable connectivity to randomly sampled individuals in the network.
distribution of connectivity as a random sample of individuals from the network.
An important question about information spreading is how the process depends on the relevance of the content of the information to the individual s expertise.
Here, we explore this issue using the available message content.
As mentioned previously, the content of each email in our dataset is represented as term frequencies.
We build a vocabulary vector (cid:2)vi = (cid:3)s1, s2, ..., sn(cid:4) for each user i by looking at the content of all the emails sent by i, where the length of (cid:2)vi is the total number of meaningful words that have appeared in all emails for all users, thus is the same length for every user.
The j-th element sj is the score of the j-th word calculated by TF-IDF.
The vector (cid:2)vi will provide a measure of ranked  buzzwords  for user i, which serves as an indicator of the individual s expertise, since previous studies have shown emails are a primary form of communication within big corporations [36, 6].
Next, we build a vector (cid:2)vl for each email l following the same procedure, where sj is the TF-IDF score of the j-th word in (cid:2)vl.
Therefore, (cid:2)vl will give us a measure of the content of email l, accounting for overly common words and overly rare words.
Then the similarity between the content of the information l and the individual i s expertise is de ned as the cosine similarity of the two vectors, Si,l = (cid:2)vi   (cid:2)vl/((cid:5)(cid:2)vi(cid:5)(cid:5)(cid:2)vl(cid:5)).
We show in Fig. 5, how the probability ratio of information spreading changes in function of Si,l for user i as (a) spreaders and (b) receivers, respectively.
The probability ratio anti-correlates with Si,l, pertise, yet exhibits a signi cant positive correlation for the receivers  case.
This  nding o ers quantitative evidence that the information undergoes a clear rerouting, demonstrating that information  ows from non-experts to experts.
That is, the information is more likely to be passed on by spreaders if the content is dissimilar to spreaders  expertise.
It then  ows to receivers who are more likely to be interested in the information.
y t i l i b a b o r




 b a





 y t i l i b a b o r





 for user i as receivers i,l





 for user i as spreaders i,l


 Figure 5: Probability ratio of information spreading changes in function of Si,l for (a) spreaders and (b) receivers.
Information spreading undergoes an interesting rerouting from non-experts to experts.
In an enterprise, understanding how information  ows within and between di erent departments and organizational levels is of great importance, from building a better collaborative environment to controlling information security.
Here we examine the impact of organizational context in two directions: one is the in uence of departmental restrictions, and the other is the organizational hierarchies.
In Fig. 6, we show the median time delay in information spreading for spreaders as di erent roles of brokerage [14].
There are in total  ve types of brokers.
Figure 6 contains illustrative examples for all  ve: Each box represents a department, and users are from the same department if they are in the same box.
If there is only one user in the department, we omit the box for brevity.
Our dataset has individuals from as many as 19 departments, and the information pathways consisting of people from di erent departments are classi ed into these 5 categories.
We observe that the information  ows signi cantly faster in two cases   coordinator and gatekeeper   than the other three cases.
These are the only two cases where spreaders and receivers are in the same department.
Thus the bottleneck of information  ow in the departmental context is to get the information out of the department.
We further break down the manager and non-manager cases for each role of brokerage.
We  nd that managers are better as a representative while non-managers are better as a liaison, but the di erence between managers and non-managers is seldom large.
We now turn our attention to the impact of organizational levels.
While it is intuitive to assume that users would respond faster to emails from people of higher level in the organization (e.g., the reaction of the emails are in uenced by the report-to relationship), a previous study [20] on email replies revealed that the reply time does not depend on level di erence.
Our study shows similar results, con rming that the time delay of information appears to be independent of the hierarchy.
Yet, when we look at the probability ratio of email forwarding as a function of the level di erence Figure 6: Information  ow in the departmental context.
Each box represents a department, and users are from the same department if they are in the same box.
Information spreads faster when B and C are in the same department.
(Fig. 7a) and organizational distance (Fig. 7b) between initiators and spreaders, we discover some non-homophily effect as opposed to the homophily e ect found in [20].
As shown in Fig. 7a, information is unlikely to  ow between individuals in the same level compared with normal email tra c, and two extreme cases clearly stand out   either bottom up or top down the hierarchy.
It tells us that, while the communication between di erent hierarchies does not yield a faster or slower response, it does matter when determining whether one would decide to pass on the information or not in the  rst place.
Moreover, Fig. 7b further con rms the non-homophily e ect that the information tends to  ow between individuals at a larger distance in the formal organizational structure.
This e ect shows that  informal networks  and  formal networks  complement each other in information spreading.
(cid:26) (cid:23) (cid:18) (cid:19) (cid:18) (cid:13) (cid:12) (cid:13) (cid:21) (cid:22) (cid:11) (cid:6) (cid:5) (cid:4) (cid:3) (cid:2) a
 b y t i l i b a b o r

 (cid:1)(cid:7) (cid:1)(cid:6) (cid:1)(cid:4) (cid:6) (cid:10)(cid:16)(cid:24)(cid:16)(cid:19)(cid:1)(cid:15)(cid:18)(cid:17)(cid:17)(cid:16)(cid:22)(cid:16)(cid:14)(cid:16)(cid:1)(cid:13)(cid:23)(cid:25)(cid:20)(cid:1)(cid:8)(cid:1)(cid:12)(cid:20)(cid:15)(cid:1)(cid:9) (cid:2) (cid:4) (cid:7)


 organizational distance btwn A and B

 Figure 7: Probability ratio of email forwarding as a function of (a) hierarchical level di erence and (b) organizational distance between initiators and spreaders.
The information spreading exhibits some non-homophily e ect.
Another factor that may impact the e ciency of information spreading relates to the individual characteristics of those participating in the spreading process.
Do people with di erent work performance behave di erently in getting the word out?
A natural hypothesis is that people with better performance are more e cient in spreading the information.
While it is generally di cult to get a quantitative mea-hours  data serves this purpose.
As a consultant s performance is directly related to the total revenue s/he generates, this unique data o ers us an opportunity to explore for the  rst time how individual characteristic a ects the information spreading process.
To test this hypothesis, we look at whether there is a correlation between the delay time of information spreading and the performance of the individuals.
We  nd that the hypothesis is not supported by our data.
We show in Fig. 8 the correlation between the median information s waiting time in hours and the performance of initiators and spreaders, respectively.
The dashed grey lines show the 25% quantiles.
The information s waiting time appears to be constant for both initiators and spreaders, independent of individual performance.
(cid:3) (cid:23) (cid:22) (cid:25) (cid:21) (cid:17) (cid:2) (cid:1) (cid:15) (cid:19) (cid:18) (cid:24) (cid:1) (cid:18) (cid:20) (cid:12) (cid:14) (cid:15) (cid:10) a (cid:5)(cid:4)(cid:5) (cid:5)(cid:4)(cid:4) (cid:5)(cid:4)(cid:1)(cid:5) (cid:4) b (cid:5)(cid:4)(cid:5) (cid:5)(cid:4)(cid:4) (cid:3) (cid:23) (cid:22) (cid:25) (cid:21) (cid:17) (cid:2) (cid:1) (cid:15) (cid:19) (cid:18) (cid:24) (cid:1) (cid:18) (cid:20) (cid:12) (cid:14) (cid:15) (cid:10) (cid:5)(cid:4)(cid:1)(cid:5) (cid:4) (cid:7) (cid:26)(cid:1)(cid:5)(cid:4)(cid:8) (cid:5) (cid:6) (cid:11)(cid:15)(cid:22)(cid:16)(cid:21)(cid:22)(cid:19)(cid:12)(cid:20)(cid:13)(cid:15)(cid:1)(cid:21)(cid:16)(cid:1)(cid:9)(cid:1)(cid:25)(cid:23)(cid:15)(cid:22)(cid:23) (cid:7) (cid:26)(cid:1)(cid:5)(cid:4)(cid:8) (cid:5) (cid:6) (cid:11)(cid:15)(cid:22)(cid:16)(cid:21)(cid:22)(cid:19)(cid:12)(cid:20)(cid:13)(cid:15)(cid:1)(cid:21)(cid:16)(cid:1)(cid:9)(cid:1)(cid:25)(cid:23)(cid:15)(cid:22)(cid:23) Figure 8: Information delay time in hours versus individual performance for (a) initiators and (b) spreaders.
The quartiles are shown as grey lines.
The e ciency of the spreading is little a ected by individual performance.
We now go beyond information pathways and turn our attention at the macroscopic level, aiming to understand to what degree spreading processes rely on contextual factors.
That is, to how many people a user forwards the information and the information reaches in total.
Our dataset contains more than 2000 threads3.
Each thread can be treated as a rooted tree (Fig. 9),where information spreads from one user to others.
We focus on two questions: (i) what are the generic properties of the tree structures within spreading processes?
(ii) how much contextual information do we need to incorporate in the models in order to capture these properties?
We found, in contrast to the narrow and deep trees observed in previous studies [27, 13], that the trees in our study are bushy yet shallow.
The information fans out, but quickly dies out.
We further demonstrated that the way informa-
enterprise, we were left with a relatively small number of threads.
The readers might be curious whether this sampling issue would a ect our observations of the tree structures.
As our upcoming stochastic model, which well captures the empirical observations, is purely based on the intrinsic media properties of email systems (i.e., number of recipients n in each email, and its distribution Pn(n)), we can therefore validate our results by checking the distribution of n across di erent datasets.
To this end, we measured this quantity in other email datasets([12] and [11]).
We found that all email datasets to date share the common feature that Pn(n) universally follows a fat-tailed distribution, indicating that our results are robust to sampling.
Aug 5, 09:30:12 "data request" Aug 5, 09:53:00 "Fw: data request" Aug 6, 14:21:53 "Fw: Fw: data request" Figure 9: An illustrative example of an information spreading tree.
This tree is of size 8, width 4, and depth 3.
tion fans out, i.e., to how many people a user forwards the information, features a high degree of randomness, being independent of the connectivity of spreaders in the underlying social network.
The overall structural properties of spreading processes can be captured surprisingly well by a simple stochastic model, indicating that information spreading is largely independent of context at the macroscopic level.
In this subsection we report the main observations about structural properties of the threads.
These observations build the foundation of our models.
In summary, there are two interesting  ndings regarding the observed trees, which can not be interpreted intuitively by existing models.
  Ultra-shallow trees: Almost 95% of trees are of depth 2, and trees with more than 4 hops are absent.
  Stage dependency: The branching factor (number of children each node has) depends on the distance from the root.
The size, width, and depth of a tree are its three most important structural characteristics.
The size of a thread is de ned as the total number of people involved in the spreading process; the width of a tree is the maximum of number of nodes in each level among all levels of the tree; depth is the length of the longest path from a leaf to the root.
(As our forwarding process is conditioned on the emails that were forwarded, the minimum depth of the trees is 2).
The distributions of size and width both follow a power law4, with an exponent of 2.67 and 2.53, respectively (Fig. 10).
While the power law distribution itself is not unexpected, what is surprising is that the tails of these two distributions have similar exponents.
This fact directly implies, as shown in Figure 11, that the size of the trees grows almost linearly with the width (a power law relation with exponent around
 from email forwarding activities are ultra shallow: 95% of the trees are of depth 2, and the distribution of depth decays so fast that we don t observe any tree of depth greater than 4 within 2000+ samples.
hereafter are assessed by applying the techniques in [9].
empirical model
 i ) e z s (





 empirical model



 ) h t p e d (
 empirical model t ) h d w
 ( i



 size




 width






 depth

 Figure 10: Distributions of size, width, and depth of the trees.
Empirical measurements are denoted as blue squares, while the grey triangles are predictions of existing models.
Dashed lines are guides for the eye, with an exponent of 2.5.
The existing models overestimate the tails of the distributions.
t h d w i








 size


 d=0 d=1 d=2 d=3

 | ) d   (

 ~2.5 ~3.5


  
 Figure 11: Scatter plot of the size and the width of the trees.
The size of the tree grows almost linearly wrt the width of the tree.
Figure 12: Distribution of branching factors   conditioned on the distance to the root of the tree d. The branching process depends on the spreading stages.
These  ndings are puzzling when we apply the classical model for generating a random tree structure: a Galton-Watson branching process [35], in which each node has a random number of children  , drawn independently according to the same distribution, denoted as P ( ).
Previous work [13] has shown that, despite the complexities of the process, this simple model  ts the data quite well.
We therefore follow the modeling procedure of [13] to  t our observation.
We  rst compute the parameters P ( ) of a Galton-Walton process by using maximum-likelihood estimation.
Then we simulate the process and generate the same number of trees as empirical measurements.
The distribution of size, width and depth, plotted as grey triangles in Fig. 11, follow a power law, with an exponent of 1.96 and 2.11.
Clearly, directly applying this procedure significantly overestimates the tails of distributions, generating trees that are much bigger and deeper than observed empirically.
Most prominent is the depth distribution.
For trees that are in the subcritical regime, i.e., the mean   of P ( ) is less than 1 (  < 1), the depth distribution has an exponential tail [17].
However, the measured depth distribution decays much faster than the model prediction.
In summary, the trees we observed here are bushy yet very shallow, which implies that the information spreads e ciently, reaching out to many people then quickly dying out.
The observations above raise an important question: does the information spreading process change in di erent stages?
We therefore compute the conditional probability of   given the distance to the root d, P (  | d), in Figure 12.
In a Galton-Watson branching process, P ( ) is universal across all nodes, therefore independent of d, predicting the collapse of curves in the plot.
We observe that, however, the branching process does depend on the distance to the root.
The power law exponent  0 of P ( ) when d = 0 approximately satis es  1 =  0 + 1, where  1 is the exponent of P ( ) when d = 1.
( 0 = 2.48 and  1 = 3.48).
The distribution of   becomes steeper as we move deeper down the trees, corresponding to the stage dependence, which was also observed in a recent study [23] regarding how online conversation forms yet remained unclear why the exponent of P ( ) changes with d, indicating that this e ect is generic among di erent settings, and a model that could appropriately capture this feature would be of great importance in enhancing our understanding of social systems.
cess What is the underlying mechanism that governs the information spreading process?
Our goal here is to explore how much contextual information we need to rely on to model the observed macroscopic structural properties of the trees in Sec.
5.1, aiming to quantify to what extent spreading processes at the macroscopic level depend on context.
The observed fat-tailed distributions of branching factors   in Fig. 12 help us assess the properties of nodes in the n (
 n





 n
 Figure 14: The distribution of the number of recipients for each email Pn(n) is fat-tailed.
)   (



 d=0 d=1
  
 Figure 15: P ( ) for d = 0 and d = 1, model prediction (solid lines) vs. experiment measure (scattered squares and circles).
Our model well captures the stage dependence phenomenon of information spreading.
The surprising independence of node properties of the information spreading process leads us to question its dependence on the media properties of email systems.
Therefore, we model the spreading processes by mimicking the way emails are sent.
Indeed, an important feature of email communication, distinguishing it from other forms of communication, like cell phones, is the ability to send a message to multiple recipients at the same time.
Therefore, the distribution of the number of recipients for all the emails being sent should follow some nontrivial form, other than  (1) in cell phones, i.e., each phone call is made to one recipient only.
Let us denote the distribution for emails system as Pn(n) for now, where n represents the number of recipients in each email.
While some emails are forwarded, many more are not.
The easiest way to look at email forwarding is to treat it as an independent decision making process, where each recipient with probability p forwards the information, or probability 1  p does nothing.
As email forwarding represents a small fraction of overall email traf- c, p should be a small number.
When a recipient decides to forward the email, s/he draws a random number from the distribution Pn to decide how many people to send the emails.
So the distribution of branching factors should follow the same distribution as Pn, from which the random numbers were drawn, giving P ( ) = Pn( ).
However, this should only hold for the case of d > 0.
Indeed, as our study is focused on the emails that are forwarded, there should be an extra term for correcting this conditional probability when d = 0.
That is, the original emails with more recipi-Figure 13: Distribution of branching factors   conditioned on the degree of the node k. The branching factors are independent on the degree connectivity.
underlying social network.
As shown in Fig. 4, the degree distribution, P (k), is also fat tailed [5, 3, 8].
Indeed, individuals are connected di erently in the network.
While most people have only a few connections, there are a notable number of individuals who have many social neighbors.
This raises an important question: to what extent does the information spreading process depend on the underlying social network?
First o , the branching factor   for an individual in the spreading process is upper-bounded by the total number of connections s/he has.
Yet beyond that, it is important to inspect whether there is a correlation between k and  .
This question has a number of important implications.
In the viral marketing case for example, where the underlying social network is usually not visible, the correlation between k and   will tell us whether it is a good marketing strategy to carefully choose the seed populations to spread an advertisement.
A positive correlation suggests that it does matter who you choose to start the spreading, as social hubs would tend to send the information to more people.
Yet if the correlation is not so strong, one could argue that perhaps it is not so important how one chooses the seed population.
Another example comes from the difference between the spreading of information and diseases.
Indeed, diseases spread from a seed to many others through networks, bearing high level similarity to the spreading of information.
The models of epidemics commonly rely on infection rates, where better connected nodes infect more neighbors, corresponding to a strong correlation between k and  .
Therefore, understanding to what extent information spreading relies on the context of underlying network would quantitatively assess the di erence between these two spreading processes, arguing whether the existing epidemic models are applicable to the spreading of information.
The correlation between k and   can be examined by empirically measuring the conditional probability P (  | k).
In-P (  | k)P (k)dk, if   is largely uncorre-deed, as P ( ) = lated with k, P (  | k) can therefore be factored out of the integral, giving P ( ) = P (  | k), leading to a data collapse when plotting P ( ) in di erent curves by grouping individuals of similar k. We show in Fig. 13 the conditional probability P (  | k) for two di erent stages of spreading (d = 0 vs. d = 1), respectively.
Surprisingly, we observe very good collapse for di erent k in both  gures, which indicates that there is no direct correlation between k and  .
The breadth of the dissemination of information is independent of the connectivity k of individuals.
This indicates, while to whom a user forwards the information indeed depends on the underlying social network (as shown in Sec.
4.1), to how many people ( ) one would forward the information does not.
(cid:2) i ) e z s (




 empirical model
 size

 t ) h d w
 ( i




 empirical model
 width

 ) h t p e d (






 empirical model

 depth


 Figure 16: Size, width, and depth distributions of model prediction (triangles) with empirical observations (squares).
The model matches well with observations.
Note the last point in depth distribution is biased by empirical  nite size e ect, lower bounded by N 1.
ents are more likely to get forwarded, as there will be more people to make a decision whether or not to pass on the information.
Following this mechanism, the distribution of branching factors at depth 0, P (  | d = 0), follows P (  | d = 0) =A (1   (1   p)   (cid:3)
 1   e  ln(1 p) ) Pn( ) (cid:4) Pn( ) (1) where A is the normalization factor, whereas P (  | d > 0) follows P (  | d > 0) = Pn( ) (2) In the limit of p   0, to the leading power, the relationship between the scaling exponent  0 of P (  | d = 0), and  1 of P (  | d = 1), follows the simple relation  1 =  0 + 1 if   (cid:6)  1/ ln(1 p)   1/p, and  1 =  0 if   (cid:8)  1/ ln(1 p)   1/p.
Both parameter p and function Pn can be measured independently from our data, yielding p = 0.012 and a fat-tailed distribution Pn (Fig. 14).
We can therefore simulate the distributions of size, width, and depth using these two measured parameters.
The results are shown in Fig. 16, with observations as squares and model predictions as triangles.
Surprisingly, they all match the empirical observations very well.
The distribution of size and width follows a power law, with an exponent of 2.63 and 2.51, very close to the empirical observations (2.67 and 2.53).
Indeed, both distributions pass the two-sample Kolmogorov-Smirnov tests, with p-values equal to 1.
Furthermore, the observation of stage dependence could be veri ed analytically by plugging the parameters into eqs.
(1) and (2), as plotted in blue and red lines in Fig. 15, respectively.
It is also very well captured by the model.
The model we described above for email forwarding processes is purely stochastic and has two parameters, p and Pn, which are measured from our email dataset independently.
Perhaps unexpectedly, such a simple model explains a great deal of observations.
This, together with Fig. 13, indicates that, despite the complexity in real life, the macroscopic structures of information spreading processes are largely independent of contextual information and can be well captured and explained via simple machanisms.
Applications of social systems rely on our understanding In this work, by com-of information spreading patterns.
bining two related but distinct large scale datasets, we address the factors that govern information spreading at both microscopic and macroscopic levels.
We found, microscopically, whom the information  ows to indeed depends on the structure of the underlying social network, individual expertise and organizational hierarchy.
The performance of individuals has little in uence on the e ciency of spreading, yet departmental constraints do slow down the process.
At the macroscopic level, however, although seemingly complex, the structural properties of spreading trees, i.e., to how many people a user forwards the information and the total coverage the information reaches, can be well captured by a simple stochastic branching model, indicating that the spreading process follows a random yet reproducible pattern, largely independent of context.
We believe that our  ndings could guide users to build better social and collaborative applications, design tools and strategies to spread information more e ciently, improve information security, develop predictive tools for recommendation systems, and more.
Future directions mainly fall into two lines.
The  rst is to develop a better prediction model for information  ow.
Indeed, upon understanding to whom one forwards information, when one would forward it, and to how many people, the question thereafter is can we build a better prediction model of the  ows?
The second direction is about the mutation of information.
People sometimes add extra information or express opinions about existing information when passing along the originals to others.
How does information mutate along the way?
How does the mutation of information a ect the patterns of spreading?
These questions stand as missing chapters in our understanding of spreading processes.
Indeed, with the availability of large-scale email datasets, thorough inspection of the email message contents will reveal the dynamics of information itself, which in turn can yield better predictive tools for information spreading.
