At different application domains, there exists the need to offer a service that permits managing, producing and offering quality information.
The entities devoted to the production and/or the storage of contents must face several requirements.
Some of them are: (cid:127) Content creation and manipulation management.
(cid:127) User Pro le Management.
(cid:127) Decision criteria on the contents to be published.
(cid:127) Integration of several fragments in one document (i.e.
constructing a web page from several content sources).
for (cid:127) Validation of published contents.
In this paper, we show an architecture (currently at development process) for the management of  exible and distributed contents: Copyright is held by the author/owner(s).
the Info ex System.
The objective of such system is to provide all the required facilities of up-to-date Content Management Systems (CMSs), while improving their capabilities for accessing distributed and heterogeneous content sources.
As far as we know, the novelty of our approach is the use of Web Services and Semantic Web technologies to allow a client (human or computer system) to retrieve information from different distributed and heterogeneous CMSs and to perform a unique query on several of such systems.
This paper is organised as follows.
Section 2 introduces how Web Services are used in our framework.
Section 3 introduces the uses of Semantic Web facilities in Info ex.
Section 4 describes the proposed working model and architecture.
Concluding remarks complete this paper.
Web Services [7] have been de ned as self-describing applications that can discover and engage other web applications to complete complex tasks over the Internet.
This technology was designed to ease the cooperation among remote applications.
The interoperability model proposed by Web Services perfectly  ts our distributed contents access requirements.
The choice of Web Services as communication mechanism provides several advantages: Interoperability and platform independence because Web Services provide a standard text-based communication mechanism.
Service location we can use the service location facilities of Web Services to help clients to locate content sources in a dynamic manner.
Service cooperation using BPEL4WS (Business Process Execution Language for Web Services) [2], we can de ne complex interactions based on the coordination and cooperation of different Web Services.
This way, complex tasks can be performed easily.
The Semantic Web [3] was born with the idea of making information  understandable  by machines.
Basically this requires to describe data using metadata and de ne the semantics of such metadata in ontologies.
In the scope of the Info ex system, Semantic Web facilities are used to deal with heterogeneity of content sources (differences in
 document speci es all the steps (WS invocations) that Clients must follow to query the CMS.
In our proposal, the document is obtained by the Clients using a WS, which is registered by the CMS in a UDDI.
the reference of its WS.
as the result the BPEL4WS document.
The Client executes this document to retrieve the desired information.
cepts in the general ontology.
The BPEL4WS execution engine uses this query (as is indicated in the BPEL4WS document) to invoke the QS, which translates it to the CMS model.
BPEL4WS engine to invoke the CMS and retrieve the desired information (if it is avaliable).
We have implemented a  rst prototype of Info ex system achieving good results in interoperation of a client with an XML/XPath based content provider and a Relational/SQL based content provider.
In this paper we have presented a proposal of an architecture for the management of contents in a  exible and distributed manner.
This proposal is based on advanced Web technologies such as Web Services or Semantic Web ones.
We expect for this system to be useful at environments like business to business portals, news agencies or content syndication sites.
This work has been partially  nanced by the  Ministerio de Cien-cia y Tecnolog a de Espa na  (Science and Technology Ministry of Spain) through the TIC2003-07208  InfoFlex  Project.
