Over the past decade, improvements in search and retrieval technologies have made it extremely easy for people to obtain an accurate list of web pages most relevant to their tasks by typing a short set of keywords [1, 4].
However, studies show that as much as 75% of a web user s time is spent in a post-search phase [3] where they look through an individual web pages or sites to  nd the speci c content that is the target of their task.
A user s post-search e ort to  nd relevant information within a web page is even more onerous during sensemaking tasks.
During such tasks, users perform complex research behaviors to gather and comprehend information from many sources to address open-ended questions, such as business intelligence, or researching vacation destinations.
In these tasks, users often take notes to record discovered data for later review and to help them discover connections between information found at di erent times.
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s).
Figure 1: The InsightFinder is a browser sidebar that contains two sections: a note-taking area, and a dynamically computed ranked list of relevant page units.
Clicking on an item in the ranked list scrolls the browser to the proper location and highlights the corresponding page unit using a red box.
In our work, we exploit a user s normal note taking behavior to reduce the post-search burden which occupies so much of a user s time during sensemaking tasks.
This approach is inspired by related work that examined task-speci c notes to recommend previously saved material [2].
The InsightFinder, as shown in Figure 1, is an extension to the traditional browser interface that assists in connection discovery during sensemaking tasks by providing dynamic context-based page unit recommendations.
The Insight-Finder o ers two primary features.
First, it allows users to easily capture, organize, and revisit information they  nd while researching a particular topic within a notebook-like sidebar.
Second, and most novel, the captured information is used as input to a context-based recommendation algorithm that provides real-time recommendations of relevant page units during the user s future browsing activity.
The InsightFinder allows users to record notes at several levels of granularity (e.g.
individual links, images, or text fragments from a web page) and provides tools for the creation, manipulation, and removal of captured information.
This is accomplished via a sidebar interface located next to the traditional browser window.
In the background, the InsightFinder maintains a context model based on the struc-
recommendations.
When a user begins a new task, they create a new workspace which provides a blank space to record new notes.
The workspace allows users to drag-and-drop information from the browser into their notes as shown in Figure 2.
Users can drag text, images, links, complex combinations of these types.
Users can also record entire web pages by dragging the location bar s link icon to the InsightFinder.
In addition to adding new information, users can manipulate and organize existing objects within the InsightFinder to clarify their overall notes as their task evolves.
This includes tools for folder creation and manipulation, as well as deleting, moving, editing, and revisiting existing notes.
The InsightFinder provides more than basic note taking capabilities.
Users can save their notes and return to them in future sessions.
In addition, users can maintain unique multi-session workspaces for each user task.
This is especially critical because users often engage in several interleaved sensemaking tasks over the course of several web browsing sessions.
Task-speci c workspaces (e.g., one for  Trip to New York  and another for  Investment Research ) allow the InsightFinder to provide more accurate task-speci c page unit recommendations.
Underneath the graphical display of the user s collection of notes is a graph-based data structure, called the context model.
Each task t has its own model, Ct, that mirrors the workspace s visual presentation and augments it with additional information required for the page unit recommendation algorithm.
Every change to a user s notes is automatically propagated to the underlying context graph.
The InsightFinder is designed to dynamically recommend the most task-relevant content on each web page visited by a user.
This is done by comparing the content on each visited page to the information stored in the user s notes.
The results are presented visually to the user to reduce the time spent searching through pages to  nd relevant information.
The recommendation algorithm, expressed in Equation 1, is reevaluated every time a user navigates to a new web page.
The InsightFinder employs a structure-based algorithm to segment each page Pi into a set of individual page units, pi,k, with the goal of creating units that contain semantically consistent data (i.e., the content within a single page unit should share a common topic).
~pi,k = Rank(Segment(Pi), Ct) (1) A relevance algorithm, Rank, then compares the information stored in the active context model Ct with the content of each of the page units extracted from the browser s current page, P .
The Rank algorithm returns a vector of page units ranked by each one s computed degree of relevance to Ct. Our prototype uses a bag-of-works representation for page units and objects in Ct, and employs traditional text-oriented measures (e.g., the Jaccard coe cient and point-wise mutual information) within the Rank algorithm.
The most relevant page units in ~pi,k are recommended to the user through the InsightFinder s sidebar.
The lower portion of the interface presents a sorted histogram providing an intuitive display of the degree of relevance for each of the recommended units.
This interface is shown in Figure 3(a).
A user s click on any item in the list causes the Figure 2: Users record notes by dragging content fragments (links, images, text, or entire pages) from the browser to folders in the InsightFinder.
(a) (b) Figure 3: (a) The InsightFinder s recommendations are presented as a ranked list.
A histogram is included to visually indicate the relative value of each unit s relevance to the context model.
(b) Clicking on any item in the list automatically scrolls the web page and highlights the page unit in a red rectangle.
browser to automatically scroll to display the selected page unit.
In addition, as shown in Figure 3(b), the selected unit is highlighted within a red box to clearly indicate where the recommended content can be found.
Relevance computation is an important part of the Insight-Finder s ability to support sensemaking tasks.
It helps users  connect the dots  by highlighting potentially relevant connections between their notes and the information currently on display within their browser.
This feature can prove especially useful in quickly uncovering either intended or serendipitous connections which a user would otherwise overlook or obtain only by tediously analyzing the entire page.
While the InsightFinder is only an early prototype, our initial evaluations show that it is e ective in reducing the time required to locate relevant information within a web page.
In laboratory experiments, we asked 10 users to perform four information location tasks using the Firefox browser.
In all four tasks, users with access to the InsightFinder exhibited a statistically signi cant reduction (p < 0.01) in the time required to perform their task.
These early results motivate our continuing work in this direction.
