Heterogeneous graphs are developing faster than ever.
In the context of the rapidly growing social networks ( e.g.
Flickr, Deli.cio.us, LibraryThing, LinkedIn), heterogeneous graphs are formed by encoding users, their postings like photos, bookmarks, book descriptions, ratings, etc., and other contextual information as graph nodes, belonging to different node types but coexisting and mutually in uencing each other in the graph [3, 4, 5, 7, 11, 12].
Heterogeneous graphs are formed in many other areas like medical domains (containing information about patients, treatments, diseases, contacts) or e-commerce platforms (representing the complex interactions between di erent types of nodes like users, products, customers, rating, reviews, etc.
).
In this paper we present a novel graph-based algorithm that aims at classifying each node as belonging to one or more labels from a  nite set of type-speci c labels.
Let us use a toy example to illustrate the goal of the algorithm.
If you consider the social network  ickr, a user is more likely to belong to the class Outdoor activity fans if she has frequently used tags belonging to the class Mountain and/or she has viewed, commented and posted photos classi ed as Nature Photography.
In this example, the graph G = (V, E) contains nodes from set V = {V1   Vk .
.
.
  Vt} that belong to Copyright is held by the author/owner(s).
one of three types Vk (here t = 3): user, photo or tag.
The relations between them are represented as edges E which either connect two nodes of the same type or connect two nodes belonging to di erent types.
To ease referring to the edges, we will use the abbreviation S-edges for the same-type edges and X-edges for the cross-type edges.
An example of an Slink formation would be a friendship connection between two users.
Note that heterogeneous graphs contain an overwhelming number of X-links and few Slinks.
Therefore, graph-based classi cation methods, designed to derive class labels based on direct links between the graph nodes will degrade in their performance, because most direct links connect di erent types of nodes with type-speci c classes.
The model we propose is able to leverage the prominent in uence of X-links, as a powerful tool to facilitate class inference across di erent type nodes.
Let us think of class labels as colors.
We model the mutual in uence of nodes as a random walk, in which an intelligent surfer carries di erent color spray cans, and while walking in the graph is coloring all its nodes by spraying di erent node types with di erent color palettes.
The color she would choose and the types of links she would follow to reach other nodes is described in a mathematically sound framework outlined below.
Gra ti models the in uence among nodes of the same type by looking at their common neighbors, which typically belong to other types.
We base the strength of the mutual in uence between nodes v, v(cid:48)   Vk on two criteria:   The bigger the overlap of shared neighbors, the higher the in uence of v and v(cid:48) on each other.
  The bigger the mutual in uence among shared neighbors, the higher the in uence of v and v(cid:48) on each other.
These criteria are incorporated in the random walk the Gra ti surfer takes by giving him the possibility at each node to either perform a two-hop walk, spreading colors to same-type nodes via heterogeneous common neighbors (thus following two X-edges), perform a one-hop walk to any node of v s heterogeneous neighborhood (following a Xor S edge), or choose at random any node from G (perform a random jump).
The model associates each node with two vectors: a prior class-label probability distribution of v, denoted by  (v) = ( 1(v), .
.
.
,  n(v))T , smoothed over the domain of all possible classes C; and a vector  (v) that captures the class-speci c (graph-topological) importance of a node.
The latter scribes the importance of v for class ci.
When performing a two-hop step from v to a node v(cid:48)   type Vk, the surfer reaches into her pocket and decides to use the same color ci she used at v, in order to paint v(cid:48), with a probability that is proportional to the authority of  i(v).
When the surfer decides to use another color cj for v(cid:48), she chooses that color with probability proportional to  i(v), dampened by  j(v) (thus changing the color from ci to cj).
That is, the prior for color cj of node v has a certain stickiness.
The random surfer spreads equal portions of the selected color on all nodes of Vk that share Vl neighbors with v.
Similarly, when the surfer decides to perform a one-hop walk from v to a neighboring node v(cid:48)   Vk   Vl, she can use any color cj with a probability proportional to  (v), dampened by  j(v).
Finally, when the surfer decides to randomly jump to any node u in the graph, she chooses a color ci to paint u with probability proportional to  i(u)/|V |.
This random walk model includes the following components:   the probability that the random surfer performs a random jump J,   the probability that she follows an X-link path from node v to a node v(cid:48) of the same type, spraying the same color as in the starting node v - F 2 same color,   the probability that she follows an X-link path from node v to a node v(cid:48) of the same type, spraying another color F 2 change color,   and the probability of following a link to any node of the heterogeneous neighborhood F 1.
class ci is given by Finally, the importance of a node v   Vk with respect to  i(v) = P [v, ci, J] +(cid:80) (cid:88) P [v(cid:48), v, ci, ci, F 2 v(cid:48) Vk P [v(cid:48), v, cj , ci, F 2 same color] change color] + P [u, v, cj , ci, F 1].
(cid:88) + v(cid:48) Vk j (cid:88) j We prove that Gra ti s random walk corresponds to a stochastic process and has desired properties like convergence and a unique solution.
Details are omitted due to shortage of space.
We implemented and tested the framework using real-world data from the social network  ickr.
We crawled a subgraph from the  ickr network where people share personal photos and attach tags to photos.
Our crawl contains approximately 231,000 nodes, roughly 4,000 users, 123,000 photos and 104,000 tags.
There are close to 3,000,000 links, out of which only 23,000 are same-type edges.
We use the same set of class labels for all three node types.
Note that even if two nodes from di erent types have the same label, they are conceptually di erent, since the labels are type-speci c (i.e. User.ci is di erent from Photo.ci).
We use the following labels: 1) Animals, 2) Birds, 3) Architecture, 4) Portrait, and 5) Nature.
These are explicit category names in  ickr itself.
We compare the performance of di erent classi ers based on the precision/recall break-even point (hence, also equal to the micro-averaged F 1 measure) [10] , which is a typical measure for the e ectiveness of a multi-label classi- er.
As we produce a vector of predictions, we would also like to test to what extent the order of class probabilities in the ground truth is re ected in the prediction vector.
Therefore, we compared the rankings provided by the ground truth vector and the prediction vector by using the normalized discounted cumulative gain (NDCG).We also compared both vectors in terms of ranking the class probabilities using the well-known Kendall s tau measure.
We compare the performance of  ve classi ers: a text only classi er, in our case a Naive Bayesian (NB) classi er, which serves as initializer of the topical distribution per node in the graph; a hybrid classi er (HC), that uses the links in a node s neighborhood to enhance its node representation and later on applies a weighted voting scheme to decide on the most probable class of a node [9]; the proposed method Gra ti that takes as initial class distribution the predictions returned by the NB text only classi er (the baseline); a topical PageRank approach [8] (TPR); and an iterative Relaxation Labeling (RL) approach from the family of graphical models, that builds on, but extends and generalizes earlier work [1, 2].
Table 1 shows results for an experiment with a training set of 1,000 labeled nodes and a test set of 230,000 unlabeled nodes.
Methods requiring initialization use the same baseline.
All gains in Table 1 are statistically signi cant with a t-test level of 0.05.
System microF1 NDCG K.Tau

 Gra ti






 Table 1: Performance comparison









 Overall, these and other experiments (omitted here for space restrictions) provide clear evidence for the superiority of the proposed method Gra ti.
