Online auctions have become increasingly popular over the last few years with a matching growth of research work in the subject.
As the largest e-commerce web site in the world, eBay provides an extensive transaction platform for a wide range of items.
This attracts millions of buyers and sellers daily with volumes in the order of U S $1800 per second.
Such a platform has become an important transaction data source of great interest to researchers.
In this paper, Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Committee (IW3C2).
Distribution of these papers is limited to classroom use, and personal use by others.
we explore this data further and identify interesting user behaviors and correlations.
We start this section by exploring some basic economic notions related to auction formats.
We cover some of the related work and results in this area followed by a description of our data sources.
We  nish the section with the layout and structure of the rest of the paper.
An auction is de ned as a selling mechanism where a plurality of goods or services are open to bids and then transferred to the winning bidder or bidders.
Economic theory considers certain auction formats as e cient pricing mechanisms.
When discussing e ciency in this paper, we speci -cally refer to Economic E ciency, in particular, Pareto Ef- ciency.
An allocation of goods is Pareto-E cient if there is no movement to another allocation that would make one individual better without making any other individual worse o .
We also use the terms e cient and optimal interchangeably.
Auctions may be characterized by common features in both the online and o ine world.
Some of these features are:   Public vs.
Private: In public auctions, the bidders  identities are open and anyone is welcome to attend the auction.
Private auctions hide the bidders  identities and whoever wins the auction remains anonymous.
  Open vs.
Sealed: In open auctions, all bid amounts are exposed to the world, while in sealed auctions, on the other hand, bid amounts are concealed, additionally, all bidders ignore the number of bids or bid amounts during the duration of the auction.
  First-price vs. Second-price: This feature refers to the price to be paid at the end of auction.
In  rst-price auctions, the winner pays exactly the highest bid.
In second-price auctions, the second highest bid is paid.
  English vs. Dutch: This feature de nes the price direction during the auction s lifespan.
An auction may start with a low price and increase as new bids arrive until the end of the auction: English auction; or, start with a high price, which drops in some fashion until it reaches someone s bid or the auction ends at a minimum price: Dutch auction.
  Fixed End-time vs. Auto-extend End-time: The end time of auction could be  xed or auto-extended depending of the activity at the end of the auction.
For
 passed without new bids.
  Hidden Reserve Price: A hidden reserve price is the minimum amount that a seller is willing to receive for an item.
This price remains hidden until the reserve is reached.
We de ne an Auction Format as a linear combination of the above features.
When comparing auction formats, one of the most common questions is that whether two formats are revenue equivalent 1, meaning, the result in the same expected sale price.
One of the most celebrated theorems in Auction Theory is the Revenue Equivalence Theorem.
The theorem suggests that any two auction formats are revenue equivalent if:   the bidder with the highest type/signal/value always wins,   the bidder with the lowest possible type/value/signal expects zero surplus,   where all bidders are risk neutral and   drawn from a strictly increasing and atomless distribution.
The eBay marketplace o ers multiple auction formats.
The default format is an English Auction.
Multiple item auctions, of the same item type, are referred as Dutch Auctions; however, this contradicts the textbook de nition.
In this paper, we only cover the former auction format as it is the most commonly used2.
EBay s English auction format is a combination of second-price, public, either open or sealed3, with an optional hidden reserve price and a  xed end-time.
There is extensive research in the area of online auctions, speci cally eBay auctions.
Sniping and bidding strategies are one of the most sought after topics.
Roth and Ock-enfels[1] indicated in their paper that in view of the distinct rules for ending an auction, the proportion of sniping is substantially higher in eBay than in Amazon.
Opposite to eBay, Amazon employs an auto-extend end-time format exclusively.
Roth and Ockenfels[2], and Wang, et al.[3] have also addressed that sniping is an optimal strategy for incremental bidders.
Barbaro and Bracht[4] have showed that sniping can e ectively prevent being shilled, and it is a rational reaction to existing eBay rules that allows a bidder to retract and a seller to cancel a bid.
Gray and Reiley[5] have found evidence of lower prices in the range of 2.54% of the  -nal value for sniped auctions; however, the bene t is not statistically signi cant.
Wilcox[6], Ockenfels and Roth[7] have investigated 535 electronic auctions spanning four categories on eBay and introduced the phenomenon that experts are more likely to bid late.
Revenue_equivalence
 the auction transactions.
price on an item reaches or exceeds a certain level.
http: //pages.ebay.com/help/buy/bidding-ov.html#about In terms of consumer surplus, Bapna, Jank and Shmueli[8] have indicated that the median surplus level per eBay auctions is $3.61 with at least 18.3% surplus ratio.
Their work is based on a sample of 4514 eBay auctions.
Brynjolfsson, Hu and Smith[9] analyzed the consumer surplus in the digital economy.
Their results suggest that increased product variety made available through electronic markets have created signi cantly larger sources of consumer surplus gains.
Ely and Hossain[10] compared sniping for DVDs on eBay to squatting in auctions and showed that sniping leads to a statistically signi cant increase in average surplus.
For all the related work reviewed, we have found that they only cover either a small group of goods or a limited set of item types.
This has limited the scope of their analysis and results.
The dataset analyzed comes from two sources: eBay Sojourner logs and eBay Data Warehouse.
Sojourner is a live feed logging system which tracing the progress of each user session s page view activities.
Given the amount of data, all analysis including this data source are limited to a 25% sampling rate.
This feed is used to determine particulars about the user behaviour in the site, for instance, details about a user s search or bidding activity.
eBay s Data Warehouse is an enormous database, which stores all information about items and users including cumulative metrics of long term user activity.
Our analysis includes a 25% sampling rate of all auctions that ended from July 1st, 2007 to July 7th,
 amounts to a total of 855420 auctions.
For all statistical results reported we adopt medians instead of averages in order to prevent sparse outliers.
The data we employ can be trusted authoritatively.
The rest of the paper is structured as follows.
In the next four sections we dive into the topics of consumer surplus, sniping, other bidding features and bidding strategy.
In Section 2, we depict the notion of consumer surplus in a second price auction, present a surplus ratio evaluation system, and investigate the determinants of surplus ratio by item category.
In Section 3, we explore and discuss the phenomenon, cause, classi cation and strength of sniping thoroughly.
In addition, we analyze the relation between surplus ratio and sniping.
In Section 5, we render a detailed analysis of different bidding strategies and how they lead to distinct  nal values even in the presence of the same item.
This result questions the ability of predicting a sale price for an auction and the validity of the revenue equivalence theorem.
In the last section, we introduce a new auction format as a supplement to the existing formats.
Consumer surplus is a traditional economic notion de ned as the di erence between the price a consumer is willing to pay for a good or service and the actual selling price.
A positive consumer surplus represents an imbalance between supply and demand for any given market.
In the case of auctions, a secondary cause of consumer surplus are ine cient formats.
4http://www.ebay.com
 must pay his own highest bidding price, the winner of a second-price auction does not necessarily pay the amount of his or her maximum bid, therefore, creating a source of consumer surplus in auctions.
Typically, consumer surplus in a second-price auction can be simply considered as the excess of the highest bid price over the  nal value.
eBay provides a proxy bid system, which turns the English format into a second-price auction format as well.
In the proxy system, a bidder is supposed to place the highest amount that he or she is willing to pay, and the proxy bid system automatically raises the bid on the user s behalf, using only as much of the bid as is necessary to maintain the top position.
On eBay, the  nal value paid by the highest bidder is: P = min{Vs + I(Vs), Vf}, (1) where P, Vf , Vs represent the  nal value,  rst and second highest bid amount respectively, and I is increment in conformity with the  nal price bracket5.
Vs + I > Vf if and only if Tf < Ts and Vf   Vs < I, where Tx is the bidding time of bid x.
A buyer may win an item for less than his or her maximum bid if Vs + I < Vf .
In order to protect the winning bidder, the actual value of Vf is kept con dential from other users including the seller.
As a result, other researchers  nd challenging to calculate the accurate consumer surplus of eBay auctions.
Bapna, Jank and Shmueli developed an automatic sniping agent for users to bid[8] so that they were able to know what the highest bidding price of the items won was.
However, their data set is skewed toward more sophisticated users, most of which attempt to snipe deliberately.
As it ll be shown in Section 3, items won via sniping have a median consumer surplus ratio twice as high as that of overall items.
In addition, only
 bidding.
Given the wide range of item prices on eBay, using the absolute consumer surplus value is not enough to render an accurate picture of eBay s consumer surplus.
We de ne the Consumer Surplus Ratio (CSR) as the ratio of the surplus amount over the  nal value.
Giray, Hasker and Sickles introduced a Median based CSR in order to derive an estimate for the ratio s lower bound.
[11] Median i VHi   VFi VHi , (2) where VHi , VFi are the highest bid and the  nal value of any item i.
In accordance with this rough CSR lower bound, an upper bound can be de ned as: Median i VHi   VFi VFi .
(3) The problem with these two metrics is the existence of items may end at an extremely low price with only one bid throughout the whole auction duration, due to the lack of users  demand or excess supply at any given time.
Based on the fact that the number of bids on an item is a powerful factor of 5http://pages.ebay.com/help/buy/bid-increments.
html (cid:181) (cid:181) (cid:182) (cid:182) (cid:181) con dence on the  nal value, we propose a re ned criterion for CSR: Median i (VHi   VFi )   (Ni + Nm) VFi   Ni + VHi   Nm , (4) (cid:182) where Ni is the number of bids of item i and Nm is the median number of bids across all items in our dataset6.
The re ned equation takes number of bids into account and present a more reasonable evaluation of the consumer surplus ratio, we use this standard criterion to gage the surplus ratio in the following context.
Equation (2), (3) and (4) are called Surplus Ratio Evaluation Model.
Consider iPhones as an example.
Fashionable and prevalent as they are, CSR is minuscule, 1.59%.
This can be easily explained given that its market price is open and the supply is stable to most buyers in a short period of time.
One is hardly willing to bid over the market price only to win that auction.
The wiser approach is to bid slightly lower than the market price, and just transfer to another identical product if outbid.
By contrast, Pre-1940 photographic image collectibles get over 50% median CPR.
Our analysis suggests that the surplus ratio is generally impacted by the nature of the market and the ability to  nd a replacement.
Rareness itself makes the valuation process di cult, therefore bidder valuation vary widely leading to high surplus ratios.
In addition, attractiveness only corresponds with number of bids and bidders.
Thus, it is not the popularity but the rarity that matters when determining the cause for surplus ratio.
We zoom out from items to categories, which, for the most part, represent a classi cation of homogeneous items.
Our results in Figure 1 show that those categories with scarce identical replacement have a higher surplus ratio than those of commodity items.
Given that surplus ratio di ers a lot even within one single top-level category, we select the category  Music , which has the largest variance, as an instance and take a deeper insight into its subcategories.
Analogous to the previous result, Figure 2 suggests that the subcategory  Cassettes , which has the highest Median CSR also contains the most rare items.
Since cassettes are no longer the popular container for music, we can scarcely  nd them in the marketplace; consequently, people s valuation have a higher variance.
Sniping is de ned as the process of watching a timed online auction, placing a winning bid at the last possible moment, usually seconds before the End of Auction (EoA), and giving the other bidders no time to react.
In order to crystallize the ambiguity of the concept, we should indicate that, sniping is not only a late bid (within the last T seconds before the EoA), but a deliberate bid as well.
Those who bid through the process of search sorted by time ending-soonest, and bid on an item during the last few seconds are not deemed as snipers.
Neither are those incremental bidders who happen to bid during the last few seconds, because they are not deliberately.
A late bid is not regarded

 as a sniping bid unless it is intentional and there is no previous bid from that bidder.
In fact, snipers never expose themselves until the last fatal strike.
We divide sniping into two parts by user behaviors, screen sniping and automatic sniping.
Screen sniping, a.k.a.
manual sniping, is the traditional way of sniping.
Buyers are squatting in front of the screen, judging upon other competitors  behaviors, waiting until last seconds, clicking the mouse nervously so as to beat other potential buyers at the last moment.
Exciting as it is, buyers are not always able to perform such strategy.
It is impractical, for most snipers, to stay up till 3 a.m. only to wait for the last second, even in the case of a very attractive auction.
As a result, the use of automatic sniping agents have prevailed.
One may either use sniping software installed locally or allow a sniping service to snipe on the user s behalf.
By means of automatic sniping, the potential buyer only needs to set up the estimated price several hours or days before the EoA, and automatic sniping tools will bid few seconds before the EoA.
Snipping has important implications on user behavior up to the point of changing the explicit format of the snipped auction.
A snipe bid can be deemed to be a sealed bid to a certain extent, as the bidding time and price remains concealed until the EoA.
For situations where sealed bids (or snipe bids) coexist with open bids in the same auction, sniping has an advantage as open bidders found their valuation upon imperfect information.
As our statistics show, automatic sniping, especially sniping services, are most likely to bid during the last 5 to 10 seconds before the EoA.
The goal has two points:   Avoid bid rejections due to network delays, and to allow for retries in the case of a network transmission error.
  Giving other potential bidders no time to react.
From our data set, we can precisely distinguish whether a snipe bid was placed via a sniping service by checking its IP address against our sniping services list.
However, bid from Figure 1: Box Plot for Meta-categories.
The box represents values from 25th percentile to 75th percentile.
The line and square in the box means median and average respectively.
eBay MotorsMusicStampsEntertainment MemorabiliaSpecialty ServicesCollectiblesSports Mem, Cards & Fan ShopAntiquesBooksPottery & GlassArtJewelry & WatchesDolls & BearsToys & HobbiesBusiness & IndustrialEverything ElseAllReal EstateDVDs & MoviesClothing, Shoes & AccessoriesCraftsMusical InstrumentsCoins & Paper MoneySporting GoodsHome & GardenComputers & NetworkingCameras & PhotoTravelBabyHealth & BeautyTicketsVideo GamesConsumer Electronics0%20%40%60%80%100%Surplus RatioCassettesRecordsOther formatsCDsWholesale LotsAccessories0%50%100%150%200%Surplus RatioCategory928WWW 2008 / Alternate Track: Industrial Practice and ExperienceApril 21-25, 2008   Beijing, Chinasniping software is hard to distinguish.
In order to estimate the total sniping percentage including both screen and automatic, we take a detailed analysis on the bid arrivals.
Figure 3: Bid Arrival Strength in the Last 10 Minutes.
The peak occurs at exact 5 seconds before the EoA.
Figure 3 illustrates the arrival strength in the last 10 minutes before the EoA on eBay U.S. site.
The arrival strength is in the form of a slowly attenuated trend except the last minute, which con rms the strong relationship between sniping and bid arrival time.
The rest of the curve follows a stable long tail that lasts until the the start of auction, which can be considered as in nite.
The dramatic burst within last minute before the EoA shows the great enthusiasm from those snipers.
If we de ne B(t) as the bid arrival strength on time t,7 then we have: B(t) = Bs(t) + Bn(t) where Bs(t) is the sniping bid arrival strength and Bn(t) is the non-sniping normal bid arrival strength.
As the de ni-tion of sniping in Section 3.1, we also have: (cid:189) Bs(t) (cid:62) 0 (t (cid:54) 60) = 0 (t > 60) In order to estimate the proportion of Bs in B, we calculate Bn instead.
Most of the normal users look for their interests via  eBay search .
Instead of sniping, those normal bidders make their bids the right time they  nd their interested items.
Currently eBay provides di erent sort methods such as  ordered by time  and  ordered by price .
Statistically the latter one should have a randomly uniform distribution on time.
However, the former one is signi cant to bid time distribution.
Our statistics show that 70% of the total search events are ordered by ending soonest, which is the default sort method among all kinds of sorts.8 We know that when a search result page is presented, those items on the top of the page will attract more attention than those on the middle and bottom.
So if we use ordered by ending soonest to make
 time before the EoA.
search.
a search, the most attractive items are those to be end in a time interval from time 0 to t, which will cause a higher probability of items in that slot to be bid on.
In addition, t is bigger when less items returned in search result page, and vice versa.
Assume the Probability Density Function (PDF) of slot length is l(t) (t > 0), then the bidding in uence intensity distribution of ending soonest search fe(t) is: (cid:90)   fe(t) = l(t)dt (t > 0) (5) t Regarding that l(t) is massive distributed, it can be considered as Gaussian Normal distribution: N ( ,  2) (t > 0), and if  , 2 (t) is the corresponding Cumulative Distribution Function (CDF) of l(t).
then we have: fe(t) = 1    , 2 (t) Assume ordered by ending soonest search has an in u-ence Ie among all the searching methods, then Ie   fe(t) is the bidding in uence function on di erent time t. Also, if Ip is the in uence intensity, fp(t) is the bidding in uence intensity distribution of ordered by price search.
Then Ip   fp(t) represents the bidding in uence function of ordered by price search.
Since fp(t) is independent of time, fp can be regarded as uniformly distributed.
Given that 93% of the search operations are via ending soonest and price lowest, total non-sniping bidding in uence In equals to Ie + Ip approximately.
Besides, once a normal bidder is informed that he or she has been outbid, the bidder will then consider of whether to rebid for that item based on his or her estimation, and iteratively.
If the in uence ratio on time t is  (t), then we have: In(t    t) =  (t)In(t) From Equation (5) we know that  (t) > 1.
(6) Considering of Figure 3, if there is no deliberate sniping, the bid arrival strength curve ought to be smoothed throughout the whole auction duration.
Therefore, we can consider In(t) to be continuous and di erentiable.
Solve Equation (6), we have: In(t) = et (cid:82)  (t)dt (7) (8) Assuming that In(t) = Ie(t) + Ip(t), then we have:  (t) = 1 + Ie In  (t)l(t) Considering that In   Bn, and  (t) > 1, then we know that Bn applies to negative exponential like distribution.
Figure 4 shows the curve  tting for Bn.
Then we can give a prediction of the continuous and di erential curve in last minute, Bnp, and  gure out the percentage that sniping contributes to the whole bids: ts(cid:82) Ps =
 (B(t)   Bnp(t))dt ts(cid:82) B(t)dt
 ts is the de ned sniping boundary time 60 seconds.
Finally we obtain that 61.4% of the events in last minute tend sniping, including both manual and automatic.
feedback as amateurs, Figure 3.5 suggests that experts are more likely to snipe, especially to employ sniping service.
When considering the surplus ratio in terms of sniping, we  nd that about 81.5% of the entire items have consumer surplus, but 88.8% of the late bidding items have consumer surplus.
Among the whole items, the median surplus ratio is
 the two sniping modes are extremely distinct.
The median surplus ratio of screen sniping 18.36%, slightly higher than that of overall bids, but the surplus ratio of sniping services is 35.10%.
For each meta-category, we calculate its late bidding rate and sniping services bidding rate among the total bids, and we illustrate the results in Table 1.
Table 1: Late Bidding Rate (LBR) and Sniping Services Bidding Rate (SSBR) per Meta-category Meta-category eBay Motors Stamps Antiques Art Business & Industrial Entertainment Memorabilia Computers & Networking Collectibles Cameras & Photo Coins & Paper Money Sports Mem, Cards & Fan Shop Music Dolls & Bears Consumer Electronics Pottery & Glass Toys & Hobbies Jewelry & Watches All Musical Instruments Books Video Games Cell Phones & PDAs Tickets Home & Garden Clothing, Shoes & Accessories Crafts Sporting Goods Everything Else Travel DVDs & Movies Health & Beauty Baby Real Estate Gift Certi cates




































































 However, stable and accurate as sniping services are, they mostly charge for additional sniping fees.
So besides the following reasons, buyers adopt sniping services only if they are extremely anxious to win that item.
The fact is that once one misses the item, it is really hard to  nd a repetition, which re ects the rarity of that type of items.
In addition, Figure 4: Bid Arrival Strength in Last 10 Minutes before the EoA.
Late bidding, a.k.a.
last minute bidding, has a higher winning rate than early bidding, because the sniper yields other competitors less time to respond.
The winning rate of the whole bids is 21.79%, namely  ve bids lead to one winning bid approximately.
As a contrast, late bidding winning rate is 51.71%.
Screen sniping s winning rate is 66.73%, which is slightly higher than sniping services  57.87%.
The reason is that sniping services  actual bidding time is more likely to be several hours or days before the EoA, which is earlier than screen sniping.
Generally, winning rate increases while the bidding time approaches the EoA.
Figure 5: Bidders  median feedback grouped by bidding time.
We have also accomplished a detailed statistics on the snipers, and  nd that there s obvious distinct on bidders  feedback between sniping and non-sniping.
Although it has been indicated by other researchers[6], we present this analysis quantitatively.
Figure 3.5 has illustrated that the median feedback of all buyers at bidding time is 60, that of late bidding is 131, and that of sniping services bidders is 407.
If
 that of Figure 1, therefore we consider that it is the rarity that leads to high surplus ratio, and rarity causes high sniping services rate, which accelerates surplus ratio as well.
Given that most of the time buyers render the estimated value to sniping services several hours or days before the EoA, when they know nothing about the price trend of that item, nevertheless, it deserves to pay the estimated value plus sniping fees for that item to the sniper.
Consider that high surplus ratio may not re ect the real value of those rare items because of sniping, especially sniping service, as a result, we come up with a new heuristic auction model in order to prevent the aberrant high surplus ratio.
In order to present a detailed analysis on auction theory, we depict some other interesting features that we have discovered.
Buyers make bids via various processes.
Some buyers like to do a keyword search, looking for an interesting item among the results, reviewing the bid history and seller s feedback, making a bid at last.
Some buyers like to use yahoo or google search at  rst, comparing items in di erent sites and bid on eBay at last.
Others would like to save the item in the bookmark of browser or  my eBay , and bid them several minutes before the EOA.
In order to  nd the percentage of the bid sources, we trace each bid in Sojourner and group them by bidding time.
We can  nd from Figure
 when the time approaches the EOA, less bidders use  eBay search .
Instead, bids from bookmark and sniping services increasing intensely in the last minute.
seem to be more attractive event though the total payments are much higher.
Figure 7: Final value and total payment on shipping fee.
(Total Payment = Final Value + Shipping Fee)
 Seller s feedback score is another important factor that in uences buyer s judgement.
The fact that buyers trust power sellers9 more than normal sellers can be recognized from Figure 8, which shows that  nal value increases with the growing of seller s feedback score.
Figure 6: Percentage of di erent bid sources.
In order to  nd out the shipping fee in uence on  nal value and buyers  total payment, we select all the  8GB Apple iPhone  items sold on eBay U.S. site since June 29 to August
 Figure 7 shows that when shipping fee is about $5.00,  nal value is at the lowest, and total payment gradually increases according to the rising of shipping fee.
Free shipping items Figure 8: Prices of sellers  feedback score.
From Section 3.5, we have illustrated the distinct bidding behaviors among various bidders.
Generally, more experienced bidders are more likely to place their bids during the last minute than less experienced bidders.
In a second-price online auction, for the sake of simplicity, we divide bidders into three types according to their distinct bidding strategies: na ve, frank and sophisticated.
Naive bidders do incremental bidding, considering the game as a traditional live 9http://pages.ebay.com/help/sell/ sell-powersellers.html Last 30 secLast 30 - 60 secLast 1 - 10 minLast 10 - 60 minLast 1 - 24 hrLast 1 - 2 daysremains0.00.20.40.60.81.0PercentageTime Intervals eBay search my eBay Bookmark Not Sure Sniping servers Other Sites (Yahoo!, Webmail, google)05101520253035600620640660680700720740Price ($)Shipping Fee (S) Total Payment Final Value10100100010000660680700720Price ($)Sellers' Feedback Score Median Final Value Median Total Payment931WWW 2008 / Alternate Track: Industrial Practice and ExperienceApril 21-25, 2008   Beijing, ChinaTable 2: Matrix of Winner.
(H in column is willing to pay higher than L in the row.
N, F and S means Na ve, Frank and Sophisticated bidder.)
auction.
They monitor the auction and manually bid just one increment over current price.
Frank bidders obey eBay s guidelines, entering the maximum price they are willing to pay and leaving everything to the proxy bidding mechanism.
Sophisticated bidders only snipe.
Imaging an auction with only two participants.
We present a matrix to show the results on di erent situations.
From Table 5 we can  gure out that when a na ve bidder who has a higher willing-to-pay price competes with a sophisticated bidder, the winner is the sophisticated one, because the sophisticated one uses sniping and that na ve bidder will have no time to make an incremental rebid even if his or her willing-to-pay price is much higher, and the  nal value could be signi cantly lower.
But if that sophisticated bidder follows eBay s guideline, behaving as a frank bidder, he or she will lose at all, because the na ve bidder has enough time to outbid him or her.
The problem becomes much more complicated when multiple bidders are involved.
We can draw the conclusion for various bidding strategies among na ve, frank and sophisticated bidders.
Frank bidders are more politic than na ve bidders because10:   Frank bidder saves time on bidding activities.
  Frank bidder will win de nitely if his or her bid is the highest.
  Frank bidder is a good strategy in response to those smug lowball bidders.
And sophisticated bidders are more sagacious than frank bidders since:   sniping can avoid an emotional bidding war which drives up the  nal value irrationally.
  sniping can avoid showing up the estimation earlier.
  sniping can avoid the max amount being probed.
  sniping is a good strategy in response to incremental bidding.
Then one may consider that sniping is the best bidding strategy for buyers to minimize the cost.
But if all bidders were snipers, then the auction format would transform into a sealed bid auction11, which runs against the original design of eBay s auction format.
10http://www.moyen.org/snipe/ 11http://www.reviews.com/hottopic/hottopic_essay_ 05.cfm

 Previously we discussed how the main goal of auctions is to determine the real value of a commodity via incremental bids.
Traditionally, as a pricing mechanism, live auctions are largely employed for antiques, paintings, collectibles etc., which are comparatively hard for sellers to determine a  xed price.
The fundamental result in traditional auction is Revenue Equivalence Theorem, addressed by Vickrey[12], which states that under certain conditions, various auction formats yield the same expected revenue to the seller.
The Internet facilitates the transactions between sellers and buyers, which leads to online auctions for various types of goods.
Using a  eld experiment technique, Lucking-Reiley compared revenue outcomes between  rst-price sealed-bid and Dutch auctions, and between second-price sealed-bid and English auctions[13].
His results indicate that Dutch auctions provide a higher rate of revenue compared to  rst-price auctions, which are con icting results with that from laboratory experiments and the theory.
His explanation is that a Dutch auction format generates more participation than the  rst-price auction format in a real market, as well as bidders  psychological e ect from a real Dutch clock.
We have shown that due to the e ect of  xed end time and diverse bidding behaviors, revenue of online auctions di er from time to time.
A noticeable deviation from real market value can be found in sniping and scarce items.
If somehow the true value cannot be re ected via an auction format, we have to alternate among various formats.
The results so far suggest that di erent auction format are more e cient depending on the type of item being sold.
In Section 2, we have introduced Surplus Ratio to measure how much higher the highest bidder is willing to pay over the  nal value.
Rareness lead to high surplus ratio due to the uncertainty on its real price.
In order to determine the price more precisely, we propose a declining price auction model for those popular but rare items.
Usually, all the participants should be on-site when a Dutch Auction begins.
We modify the traditional Dutch Auction format so is suitable for online activity.
  If a seller selects to list an item with declining price auction, he or she should set a starting price, a reserved price, starting time and auction duration.
The starting should be the seller s expected highest price a potential buyer will be willing to pay.
It may be equal or higher than the BIN (Buy It Now) price of similar items.
12   Once the auction begins, the current price decreases from the seller s starting price to the reserved price within throughout the auction duration by means of an optimal curve.
  When a buyer  nds this item, he or she is able to bid the current price from the buyers perspective this is a BIN operation, or bid an amount lower than current price.
  All the bidding information is public to everyone, and the current highest bid price is equal to the second highest amount plus an increment.
  Once the current price drop to an amount equal or lower than the current highest bid, that bidder wins the item, at this point the auction ends.
12http://pages.ebay.com/help/buy/how-buy-bin.html
 lic, second-price format.
The distinctions between Declining Price Auction format and existing formats are:   Declining Price Auction format employs a descending price while the existing format adopts ascending price.
  BIN price of Declining Price Auction format is dropping as the auction happens while that of the existing format is  xed.
Within this auction model, buyers have no incentive to snipe.
Each bidder who is interested in that auction should o er the maximum amount that he or she is will to pay for that item.
In order to raise the  nal value, we can adopt decreasing curve function in the format y = A   B eCx, which has a low price drop rate beginning of the auction compared to a high price drop rate when time approaches the EoA.
Declining Price Auction also has a bene t on speeding up the auction duration.
When the price reaches someone s valuation, the auction ends immediately, while in the existing English auction the highest bidder has to wait until the prede ned  xed end time.
We have studied consumer surplus, sniping and other bidding features, and we have illustrated the relationships among sniping rate, consumer surplus ratio and rareness of items.
We have demonstrated that distinct bidding behaviors lead to completely di erent  nal values.
As a result, we propose a declining price auction format which aims to drive the auction  nal price to a more e cient allocation.
This work was supported by eBay Inc. Any opinions,  ndings and conclusions or recommendations expressed in this material are the authors and do not necessarily re ect those of the sponsors.
We would also like to thank Mark Boyd for his insights and feedback throughout this work.
