A dramatic development of Internet in China has been witnessed in the recent years.
The number of Internet users   Gui-Rong Xue is the corresponding author.
Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Committee (IW3C2).
Distribution of these papers is limited to classroom use, and personal use by others.
in China now exceeds 160 millions and the Chinese Web pages are numbered in billions1.
As the most commonly used language only second to English, Chinese is expected to enjoy such a rocketing increase in scale.
Because the Web pages written in Chinese is becoming a major information source on the Internet, more research e orts are now devoted to organizing and mining the Chinese Web pages via Web mining techniques, such as Chinese blog mining [20] and query log analysis [19].
A potential problem in mining the Chinese Web pages is the lack of su cient labeled data.
As we know, classi- cation requires a large amount of labeled training data.
Generally speaking, the more labeled training data one can obtain, the better the classi cation accuracy and robustness are.
Fortunately, due to many reasons, there exists a lot of labeled Webpage information in English, in particular in the machine learning community.
Examples of these resources are Reuters-21578 [16], 20 Newsgroups [15], and Open Document Project [22].
It is thus useful and intriguing to fully utilize the labeled documents in English to help classify the Web pages in Chinese.
This problem is called cross-language Webpage classi cation.
In this paper, we address this important problem using a novel information theory based technique.
Although the training and test documents are in di erent languages, one can use a translation tool to help translate the test data sets in the English language, before a classi- er trained on English pages can be applied.
While such a method may be feasible, we observe that a simpleminded application of this method may result in serious problems because of the following reasons:   First, due to the di erence in language and culture, there exists a topic drift when we move from the English Web pages to the Chinese Web pages.
This corresponds to the situation in machine learning where the training and test data have di erent distributions in terms of the class labels.
This topic-imbalanced problem needs to be overcome in our research.
  Second, due to the errors introduced in the translation process, there may be di erent kinds of errors in the translated text.
For example, some errors may result from Chinese phrase segmentation, others are due to ambiguities introduced by a dictionary.
This translation noise problem must be addressed e ectively.
http://www.cnnic.net.cn/upload les/pdf/2007/2/13/95522.pdf
 common part Chinese Web Pages coding output (cid:20) information bottleneck Figure 1: The model of our information bottleneck cross-language classi er.
  Finally, the feature spaces of the English and Chinese Web pages may be di erent, resulting in a situation where the training and test data may have di erent feature sets.
We therefore must be innovative in our solution to this problem by carefully extracting the common-semantic parts of the two data sets, and use these parts as a bridge to propagate the class labels.
To solve the above problems, we develop a novel approach for classifying the Web pages in Chinese using the training documents in English.
Our key observation is that despite the above listed problems, linguistically, the pages in Chinese and English may share the same semantic information, although they are in di erent representation forms, i.e., Chinese characters and English words, respectively.
This is reasonable, because people with good command of both English and Chinese can convey the same information in both languages.
Also, it is noted that the same meaning might be expressed in di erent ways due to the cultural and linguistic di erences.
Based on the observations, we propose to tackle the cross-language classi cation problem using information bottleneck theory [29].
Figure 1 illustrates our idea intuitively.
The training and translated target texts are encoded together, allowing all the information to be put through a  bottleneck  and represented by a limited number of codewords (i.e.
labels in the classi cation problem).
Information bottleneck based approach can maintain most of the common information and disregard the irrelevant information.
Thus we can approximate the ideal situation where similar training and translated test pages, which is the common part, are encoded into the same codewords.
In the experimentation, we collect the Web pages in English and Chinese from Open Directory Project for the data sets.
Five binary and three multi-class tasks have been set up.
Our method gives signi cant improvement against several existing classi ers, and converges very well.
In summary, in this paper we make the following contributions:   In addressing the cross-language Web page classi cation problem, we observe that there is a common part of Chinese and English documents and develop a novel method for addressing the problem of topic drifts in Chinese and English documents, thus improving the classi cation performance.
  We propose to handle noisy features and di erent features problem in cross-language Webpage classi cation by the information bottleneck technique.
This method allows the common part in the two languages to be extracted and used for classi cation, despite their di erences.
We show experiments on real English and Chinese Web documents.
Our method is shown to improve other classi cation algorithms.
The rest of our paper is organized as follows: In Section
 concepts reviewed in Section 3, we introduce the information bottleneck theory in Section 4.
Section 5 describes our proposed method in details.
The experiments and results are presented in Section 6.
In the end, we conclude this paper with future work discussion in Section 7.
The detailed proofs to the lemmas and theorems in this paper will be given in Appendix.
In this section, we review several prior researches mostly related to our work, including traditional classi cation, cross-language classi cation and information theoretic learning.
The traditional classi cation formulation is built on the foundation of statistical learning theory.
Two schemes are generally considered, where one is supervised classi cation and the other is semi-supervised classi cation.
Supervised classi cation focuses on the case where the labeled data are su cient, and where the learning objective is to estimate a function that maps examples to class labels using the labeled training instances.
Examples of supervised classi cation algorithms include decision trees [25], K nearest neighbor methods [6], naive Bayes classi ers [17], support vector machines [5], and so on.
Semi-supervised classi cation [32] addresses the problem that the labeled data are too few to build a good classi er.
It makes use of a large amount of unlabeled data, together with a small amount of the labeled data to enhance the classi ers.
Many semi-supervised learning techniques have been proposed, e.g., co-training [4], EM-based methods [21], transductive learning [13] etc.
As we claimed, there are two main di culties in the cross-language classi cation, namely errors by translation and bias by topic drifts, which traditional classi ers cannot handle well.
Our proposed method tries to tackle these di culties via the information bottleneck technique.
There are several research works addressing the cross-language classi cation problem.
Bel et al. [3] studied English-Spanish cross-language classi cation problem.
Two scenarios are considered in their work.
One scenario assumes to have training documents in both languages.
The other scenario is to learn a model from the text in one language and classify the data in another language by translation.
In our work, we focus on the second scenario.
[26] gave good empirical results on English-Italian cross-language text categorization using an EM-based learning method.
Note that to avoid trivial partitions, it applies feature selection before each iteration.
[23] employed a general probabilistic English-Czech dictionary to translate Czech text into English and then classi ed Czech documents using the classi er built on English training data.
Other cross-language text classi cation research include [11] (English-Spanish), [18] (English-Japanese) etc, to be mentioned.
In addition to text catego-
cations: Named Entity Recognition [30], Question Answering [8], etc.
However, most existing algorithms are based on traditional supervised or semi-supervised classi cation techniques.
As we stated, there are two di culties in the cross-language classi cation, the translation error and topic drift, which lead to di erence in distributions between the Web pages in two languages.
Since traditional supervised classi cation techniques assume identical distribution for training and test data and in the cross-language setting this assumption is hardly met, most existing algorithms will not cope with the cross-language text classi cation well.
In this work, our method tries to handle the Chinese-English cross-language categorization problem by information bottleneck.
We will show that our algorithm can better alleviate the impact of translation error and topic drift, and improve the (English to Chinese) cross-language classi cation performance against existing methods.
Another related research is information theory based learning.
Information theory is widely used in machine learning, e.g.
decision tree [25], feature selection [31], etc.
The information bottleneck theory (IB) was  rst proposed by Tishby et al.
[29].
They constructed a model that uses information theory to solve the clustering problem.
In their work, a rate distortion function is introduced as a loss function.
They also presented a converging iterative algorithm for this self-consistent determination problem.
After that, a lot of interesting works have been conducted, c.f.
[27].
As known, IB is an information theoretic formulation for clustering problem while maximum likelihood of mixture models is a standard statistical method to clustering.
Interestingly, Slonim and Weiss [28] have proved that under a certain mapping, these two approaches are strongly related.
Moreover, when input data is large enough, they are statistically equivalent.
Several extensions to information bottleneck method have been investigated recently.
[9] proposed a word clustering method which minimizes the loss in mutual information between words and class-labels, before and after clustering.
Using similar strategy, mutual information based [10] and Bregman divergence based [2] co-clustering were proposed.
In contrast to these works, we focus on solving the cross-language classi cation problem via an information theoretic approach.
More speci cally, the IB technique is used to mine the common part of the pages in di erent languages for classi cation.
In this section, some preliminary knowledge in the information theory is brie y introduced, including information entropy, mutual information and Kullback-Leibler divergence [14].
For more details, please refer to [7].
The term entropy is used to measure the uncertainty associated with a random variable X.
Formally,

 p(x) log(p(x))dx, (1) x where x enumerates each value X may take.
In the communication system, the entropy quanti es the information
 encoding
 Figure 2: The information bottleneck.
Here, X is the signals to be encoded, and  X is the codewords.
In classi cation, X is the set of instances, and  X is the prediction labels.
contained in a piece of data, i.e. its minimum average message length in bits.
This means the best possible lossless data compression is limited to this measure.
Let X and Y be random variable sets with a joint distribution p(X, Y ) and marginal distributions p(X) and p(Y ).
The mutual information I(X; Y ) is de ned as


 p(x, y) log x y p(x, y) p(x)p(y) dxdy.
(2) The mutual information is a measure of the dependency between random variables.
It is always non-negative, and it is zero if and only if the variables are statistically independent.
Higher mutual information values indicate more certainty that one random variable depends on another.
The mutual information is related to the Kullback-Leibler (KL) divergence or relative entropy measures, de ned for two probability mass functions p(x) and q(x),
 D(p||q) = p(x) log x p(x) q(x) dx, (3) where q(x) is a reference distribution.
The KL-divergence can be considered as a kind of a distance between the two probability distributions, although it is not a real distance measure because it is not symmetric.
In addition, KL-divergence is always non-negative due to the Gibbs  inequality [7].
In this section, we present the basic concepts for information bottleneck, and show how it can be applied to cross-language classi cation.
The information bottleneck (IB) method is a distributional learning algorithm proposed by Tishby et al.
[29].
In this theory, the clustering and classi cation problems can be treated as a coding process.
Let X be the signals to be encoded, and  X be the set of codewords.
In classi cation, the codewords  X is de ned as class labels, and then classifying X can be seen as using  X to encode X.
Usually  X is not able to contain as much information as X.
Therefore, when the signals X is encoded to codewords  X, part of the information contained by X will be lost.
This can be imaged as the information in X passing through a bottleneck  X, as shown in Figure 2, and thus  X is called information bottleneck.
tiveness (the lower rate the better) as well as meaningful information, which can be formulated as a trade-o  objective I(  X; X) I(  X; Y ) [29], where Y is the feature set with respect to X.
Note that the coding rate I(  X; X) in classi- cation is no so important as in clustering problems, since classi cation focuses on prediction accuracy.
Therefore, in this task, we need to mainly concentrate on improving the classi cation accuracy.
So that,  I(  X; Y ) is optimized instead of I(  X; X)    I(  X; Y ), as the coding rate I(  X; X) is ignored.
Moreover, in order to make the optimization easier, in this work, we optimize I(X; Y )   I(  X; Y ) instead of  I(  X; Y ).
We will show the optimization details in the next section.
Note that, I(X; Y ) is a constant, when X and Y are  xed, and thus optimizing I(X; Y )   I(  X; Y ) is equivalent to optimizing  I(  X; Y ).
The meaning of objective function I(X; Y )  I(  X; Y ) can be also understood in another way.
In classi cation, the instances are described by the features, and thus there should be mutual information between data instances and their features, i.e.
I(X; Y ) > 0.
In addition, the category information is also described by the features, and thus I(  X; Y ) > 0.
Therefore, the information in X and  X is contained in forms of I(X; Y ) and I(  X; Y ).
Note that I(X; Y ) is always greater than or equal to I(  X; Y ), which will be derived in Lemma I(X; Y )   I(  X; Y ) > 0 means there is
 some loss in mutual information after categorization.
To sum up, a good categorization should keep the mutual information between data and features, and minimize the information loss.
In other words, I(  X; Y ) should be close to I(X; Y ).
Therefore, in the information bottleneck classi cation setting, the quality of the categorization should be judged by the loss in mutual information between the original instances and categorized instances.
The following remark lays our the objective function formally.
Remark 1.
In the information bottleneck (IB) classi cation setting, a quali ed hypothesis h : X (cid:3)   X approximately satis es:     h = arg min h 
 .
(4)
 Before the formal problem formulation, we would like to present a brief idea to address the cross-language classi cation problem by information bottleneck.
Suppose we have the union set X of English and Chinese Web pages, Y is the set of words contained in X, and  X stands for the class labels.
It is observed that there is a common part of English and Chinese web pages, which share the similar semantic information.
This observation inspired our work.
If the texts are put through the  bottleneck , the labeled data (English Web pages) will, to some extent, guide the classi cation on Chinese pages by encoding the common part into the same codewords.
It is because that during the information theoretic compression, IB tends to encode the similar pages into the same code (label) in that it can reduce the code length without loss of much information.
If one Chinese page is in the common part, i.e. similar to a labeled English page, this page will be classi ed into the same category as that of the English one.
Figure 3: The cross-language classi cation problem.
Here, Xe is the set of the Web pages in English and Xc is the set of the Web pages in Chinese.
It is assumed that there is some common part between English and Chinese Web pages.
To summarize, it is noted that cross-language Web pages are carrying a common part of semantic information.
According to the information bottleneck theory, this part of information is expected to help encode similar Web pages in di erent languages since it is highly relevant information to class labels and also is contained in the Web pages in both languages.
Therefore, it is clear that the information bottleneck technique is suitable to address the cross-language classi cation problem.
In this section, the problem is carefully formulated and an objective function is proposed to build a classi cation model.
The classi cation algorithm (IB) is then presented.
Also, the convergence and time complexity are theoretically analyzed.
Let Xe be the set of the Web pages in English with class labels and Xc be the set of the Web pages in Chinese without labels.
Usually, it is assumed that the English Web pages Xe and Chinese Web pages Xc share some common information with each other, as shown in Figure 3.
The feature space for Xe is the English words Ye and for Xc is the Chinese words Yc.
The objective is, we are trying to classify the pages in Xc into C, the prede ned class label set, which is the same for the pages in Xe.
To sum up, labeled training documents are available only in one language, and we want to estimate a hypothesis h : Xc (cid:3)  C which classi es documents written in another language.
This is called cross-language text classi cation.
In contrast to traditional text categorization, where the training and test pages are in the same language, cross-language text classi cation requires that the training and test data should be uni ed into one single feature space.
Otherwise, it is not possible for existing machine learning techniques to get the results.
The most common way is to translate the pages in one language into the other one.
However, it is noticed that this common approach will bring the error and bias for further classi cation.
Linguistically speaking, machine translation technique is far from satisfactory.
What is worse, the simple translation preprocessing does not give the accurate information.
The topics of original data may drift under translation.
Empirically, these claims were justi ed.
The experimental details are presented in Section

 As stated in Section 4.2, we propose to address the problems via the information bottleneck technique.
The test Web page set is translated to English, denoted as X T c .
Let X = Xe   X T c , as the original signal for the bottleneck.
The class label set is the output of the bottleneck  X.
Y is referred to the features of all the documents.
To fully utilize the common part for classi cation, we de ned the objective function as
 (5) which is exactly the objective function in Remark 1.
Note that I(X; Y )   I(  X; Y ) is always non-negative, which will be derived by Lemma 1.
Based on Remark 1, the objective function value should be minimized, since we aim to draw I(  X; Y ) close to I(X; Y ).
Before proposing the optimization approach for minimizing the objective function, we  rst de ne some notations used in subsequent analysis.
Definition 1.
We use  X = { x} to denote a categorization of X for the hypothesis h, where  x = {x(cid:2)|h(x(cid:2) ) = h(x)}.
Clearly, |  X| is equal to |C|, since h maps the instances in X to the class-labels in C.
Definition 2.
The joint probability distribution of X and Y under the categorization  X is denoted by  p(X, Y ), where  p(x, y) = p( x, y)p(x| x) = p( x, y) p(x) p( x) , (6) where x    x, and p(x| x) = p(x)  x.
p( x) since x totally depends on In the following, we will transform the objective function in Equation (5) into another representation by KL-divergence [14].
Lemma 1.
For a  xed categorization  X, we can write the objective function in Equation (5) as I(X; Y )   I(  X; Y ) = D(p(X, Y )|| p(X, Y )), (7) where D( || ) is the KL-divergence de ned as Equation (3).
Note that, based on the non-negativity of KL-divergence, the objective function I(X; Y )   I(  X; Y ) should always be non-negative.
From Equation (7), it is found that the loss in mutual information in the objective function equals to the KL-divergence between p(X, Y ) and  p(X, Y ).
To minimize the objective function in Equation (5), we need only to  nd a categorization  X which minimizes the KL-divergence value D(p(X, Y )|| p(X, Y )) .
(8) However, the objective function in Equation (7) is in the joint probability form that is di cult to be optimized.
Now, we are to rewrite it into a conditional probability form, which will facilitate our algorithm to reduce the objective function value.
Lemma 2.
The objective function in Equation (7) can be expressed by a conditional probability form as D(p(X, Y )|| p(X, Y )) = p(x)D(p(Y |x)|| p(Y | x)).
(9)

  x   X x x Lemma 2 gives a straightforward explanation for cross-language text classi cation via the information bottleneck technique.
If one Chinese page is more similar to the English pages of one class  x, i.e. the distance D(p(Y |x)|| p(Y | x)) is the smallest, assigning this page to  x will lead to a lower value of the objective function.
Then it is desirable during the optimization process, which means the common part between English and Chinese Web pages work as stated in Section 4.2.
Also, Lemma 2 provides an alternative way to reduce the objective function value.
From Equation (9), we know that minimizing D(p(Y |x)|| p(Y | x)) for a single instance x could reduce the global objective function D(p(X, Y )|| p(X, Y )).
As a result, if we iteratively optimize the corresponding D(p(Y |x)|| p(Y | x)) for each instance x, the objective function will decrease monotonically.
Thus, based on Lemma 2, the information bottleneck cross-language text classi cation (IB) is derived as in Algorithm 1.
Algorithm 1 The Cross-Language Text Classi cation (IB) Algorithm Input: English Web pages Xe; Chinese Web pages Xc; an existing translator T ; the number of iterations N .
Output: the  nal hypothesis hf : Xc   Xe (cid:3)  C.
c = T (Xc).
Let X = Xe   X T c .
vised learning method (e.g.
naive Bayes classi ers [17]).
D(p(Y |x)|| p(t 1)(Y | x)) c do h(t)(x) = arg min x   X end for for each x   Xe do and Equation (6).
for each x   X T






 12: end for
 h(t)(x) = h(t 1)(x) end for Update  p(t) based on h(t) and Equation (6).
In Algorithm 1, in each iteration, the algorithm keeps the prediction labels for the English Web pages Xe unchanged since their true labels are already known, while choosing the best category  X for each data instance x in X T c to minimize the function D(p(Y |x)|| p(t 1)(Y | x)).
As we have discussed above, this process is able to decrease the objective function in Equation (7).
The whole algorithm is illustrated in Figure

 Since our algorithm IB is iterative, it is necessary to discuss its property of convergence.
The following theorem shows that the objective function in our algorithm monotonically decreases, which establishes that the algorithm converges eventually.
Theorem 1.
The objective function in Equation (7) monotonically decreases in each iteration of Algorithm IB.
D(p(X, Y )|| p(t) Note that, although the algorithm is able to minimize the objective function value in Equation (5), it is only able to (X, Y ))   D(p(X, Y )|| p(t+1)
 (10)
 function and give new labels for Chinese Web Pages Unlabeled Chinese Web Pages Translator Unlabeled Chinese Web Pages in English Basic Classifier New Labels for Chinese Web pages N times Labeled English Web Pages Output the labels for Chinese Web pages Figure 4: The scheme of the IB-based cross-language classi cation algorithm.
 nd a locally minimal one.
Finding the global optimal solution is NP-hard.
From Theorem 1, we can straightforwardly derived that the algorithm IB converges in a  nite number of iterations, since the hypothesis space is  nite.
Regarding the computational cost for IB, suppose the non-zeros in p(X, Y ) is N .
In each iteration, IB needs to calculate h(t) in O(|C|   N ) and update  p(t)(Y |  X) in O(|C|   |Y |).
Therefore, the time complexity of IB is O(|C|  (|Y | + N )) as a result.
Usually, |C| is not large and could be considered as a constant, while |Y | is usually not larger than N .
Thus, the time complexity of IB is O(N ) in general.
Thus, our algorithm IB has good scalability, and is capable for large data sets.
In this section, we evaluate our cross-language classi cation algorithm based on information bottleneck, and compare our algorithm with several state-of-art supervised and semi-supervised classi ers.
We conduct our evaluation on the Web pages crawled from the Open Directory Project (ODP) [22] during August 2006.
Each Web page in ODP was classi ed by human experts into 17 top level categories (Arts, Business, Computers, Games, Health, Home, Kids and Teens, News, Recreation, Reference, Science, Shopping, Society, Sports, Regional, Adult and World).
We removed the Regional category because the Web pages in the Regional category are also in other categories.
The Web pages in the Adult have not been crawled by our crawler, because most of them are banned by our internet service provider, and thus the Adult category is not included in our data collection.
Moreover, the Web pages in the World category are in the languages other than English.
We selected all the Chinese pages from the World category as Chinese test data.
For Chinese Web pages, there are also 14 top categories each of which can be mapped to a top category in the English ODP.
Therefore, we have 14 categories for both Chinese and English Web pages in this experiments.
Figure 1 represents the detailed description for our data collection.
From the table, it can be seen that, the number of English labeled Web pages is much larger than that of Chinese ones in ODP, which indicates English la-Category Arts Business Computers Games Health Home Kids and Teens News Recreation Reference Science Shopping Society Sports Total Chinese Web Pages English Web Pages





























 Table 1: The descriptions for all the categories in ODP, including Chinese and English ones.
Note that, all the Chinese Web pages as well as their category labels were translated into English using Google Translator.
Categories Games, News Arts, Computers Recreation, Science Computers, Sports Data Sets Games vs News Arts vs Computers Recreation vs Science Computers vs Sports Reference vs Shopping Reference, Shopping


 Arts, Computer, Society Business, Health, News, Sports Games, Home, News, Shopping, Sports Table 2: The composition for each data sets.
beled Web pages (1,271,106) is much more abundant than Chinese ones (18,243).
Data preprocessing has been applied to the raw data.
First, all the Chinese Web pages were translated by Google Translator [1].
Then, we converted all the letters to lower cases, and stemmed the words using the Porter s stemmer [24].
After that, stop words were removed.
In order to reduce the size of the feature space, we used a simple feature selection method, document frequency (DF) threshold-ing [31], to cut down the number of features, and speed up the classi cation.
Based on [31], DF thresholding, which has comparable performance with information gain (IG) or CHI, is suggested since it is simplest with lowest cost in computation.
In our experiments, we set the DF threshold to 3.
After feature selection, the vocabulary size becomes
 In order to evaluate our cross-language classi er, we set up eight cross-language classi cation tasks.
Five of them are binary classi cation tasks, and others are for multiple-class classi cation.
Table 2 presents the detailed composition for each classi cation task.
We extracted the most frequent features in the Chinese and English Web pages for each of the 14 ODP categories, and found the frequent features in the Chinese and English Web pages are quite di erent, although they share some







 s e g a
 b e






 Features
 Figure 5: The instance-feature co-occurrence density for the Games vs News data set.
part.
Table 3 presents the top 5 frequent features in the Chinese and English Web pages for each of the 14 ODP categories.
We believe there is topic drift between Chinese and English Web pages.
For example, there are several Chinese words which are frequently appears in the Chinese Web pages, such as  qiyuan ,  mufurong ,  pingqiu  and so on.
In the Games,  qiyuan , one of the famous online game in China, is the most frequent keyword, while it hardly appears in the English Web pages.
This is due to the di erence in culture between the Chinese and western societies.
 pingqiu , which means  draw  in English, hardly appears in English Web pages, because the translator fails to provide a mapping between  draw  and it.
The observations demonstrate the claim we made previously that there are two main obstacles for the cross-language classi cation: one is the di erence in topic focus between the two languages; the other is the translation error.
Figure 5 shows the instance-feature co-occurrence distribution on the Games vs News data set.
In this  gure, documents 1 to 484 are from Xe, while documents 485 to 853 are from Xc.
Within a data set, Xe or Xc, the documents are ordered by their categories (Games or News).
The words are sorted by ng(w)/nn(w), where ng(w) and nn(w) represent the number of word positions w appears in Games and News documents, respectively.
From Figure 5, it can be found that the distributions of English and Chinese Web pages are somewhat di erent, however the  gure also shows large commonness exists between the two data sets.
The density divergence between two data sets in the  gure makes the cross-language classi cation di cult, because most clas-si cation techniques rely on the basic assumption that the training data should be drawn from the same distribution as the test data.
However, the common part between the two data sets can help increase the feasibility of the classi cation.
In this experiments, we compare our information bottleneck cross-language classi er (IB) with several state-of-art classi cation algorithms to show the advantages of our algorithm.
We take the supervised classi cation algorithms to be the baseline methods.
Naive Bayes classi ers (NBC) [17] and support vector machines (SVM) [5] are evaluated in the experiments.
They are trained on Xe and tested on X T c .
Transductive support vector machines (TSVM) [13] is also introduced as comparison semi-supervised learning methods, which take both labeled Xe and unlabeled X T c for training and X T c for testing.
For implementation details, TF-IDF is used for feature weighting when training support vector machines (SVM) [5] and transductive support vector machines (TSVM) [13].
TF is used for feature weighting when training naive Bayes classi er (NBC) [17] and our information bottleneck based cross-language classi cation algorithm (IB).
SVM and TSVM are implemented by SVMlight [12] with default parameters (linear kernel).
For more details about SVM and TSVM, please refer to [5] and [13].
NBC and IB are implemented by ourselves.
The initial categorizations for IB are given by NBC.
We now present the classi cation performance for each comparison methods, and show advantages of our information bottleneck cross-language classi er IB.
The metrics used in this experiments are macro-average precision, recall and F1-measure.
Let f be the function which maps from document d to its true class label c = f (d), and h be the function which maps from document d to its prediction label c = h(d) given by the classi ers.
The macro-average precision P and recall R are de ned as |{d|d   Xc   h(d) = f (d) = c}| |{d|d   Xc   h(d) = c}| |{d|d   Xc   h(d) = f (d) = c}| |{d|d   Xc   f (d) = c}| , (11) .
(12)

 c C c C





 F1-measure is a harmonic mean of precision and recall de- ned as follows



 .
(13)
 Table 4 presents the performance on each binary classi cation data set given by NBC, SVM, TSVM and our algorithm IB.
The implementation details of the algorithms have already been presented in the last subsection.
The evaluation metrics are macro-average precision, recall and F1-measure, of which we have just given the de nitions.
From the table, we can see that IB signi cantly improves the other three methods.
Although SVM and TSVM is slightly better than IB on the Arts vs Computers data set, IB is still comparable.
But, on some of the other data sets, e.g.
Computers vs Sports and Reference vs Shopping, both SVM and TSVM fail, while IB is much better than the two discriminative methods.
In addition, NBC is always worse than IB, but never fails a lot.
In average, IB gives the best performance in all the three evaluation metrics.
Table 5 presents the performance on each multiple-class classi cation data set given by NBC and our algorithm IB.
Arts Business Computers Games Health Home Kids and Teens News Recreation Reference Science Shopping Society Sports Chinese Web Pages giotto, tugen, penchant, ashima, banzai congeni, nanci, decre, wallk, darshan volp, uptim, screenshot, malcolm, datastorag qiyuan, vierni, vernier,  rstyeargirl, kangderong neurosyphili, maximowicziana, carboyhdr, podophyllin, interpol banlan, xero, bcsahin, mufurong, prestonwood head, yangpu, ashaar, geetanjali, urdupoetri uppercut, muham, readjust, pulverul, dovic frauenhof, fatehpur, xingyuncao, nakedpoetri, orchha  lmcent, pessim, cold, seed, farm applaud, zhouyulin,  ask, middlepillar, modarr lcjzl, lashel, aubrac, roozi, ebullit cass, indispens, buddhist, tahm, trod parama, cow, pingqiu, nesi, shiduotangbei English Web Pages paean, base, dvdlaser, crew, taglin natstat, kazaa, bcm, aanspreken, wct volp, easyb, letterhack, grundriss, wsmcafe accident, enix, impress, ri , freeenergynew  nespun, stadium, linear, shyamalan, ryder machist, evita, beradino, bakk, fudoh pact, isch, argo, quem, melanesia narr, hume, mujer, dude, gif behoof, heepster, bona d, tiltrecord, kapil platitudin, waggon, blankli, dfee, quotearch frobozzica, exploratori, forbrydelsen, kashyyk, pallot scherick, tricia, strewn, caryn, glenda wallpap, hornadai, lafort, obstat, duranczyk shinobi, jumbl, shirt, invert, sould Table 3: The most frequent (stemmed) features in the Chinese and English Web pages for each ODP category.
All the Chinese Web pages have already been translated into English using Google Translator.
Data Set Games vs News Arts vs Computers Recreation vs Science Computers vs Sports Reference vs Shopping Average Precision

























 Recall

























 F1-Measure

























 Table 4: Macro-average precision, recall and F1-measure for each classi er on each binary classi cation data set.
The training documents for NBC, SVM and IB are Xe and the test data for them are X T c .
TSVM is trained on labeled Xe and unlabeled X T c , and tested on X T c .
Data Set


 Average




 Precision




 Recall









 F1-Measure









 Table 5: Macro-average precision, recall and F1-measure for each classi er on each multiple-class classi cation data set.
The training documents for NBC and IB are Xe and the test data for them are
 c .
Note that, SVM and TSVM are not included here, because they are designed for binary classi cation.
SVM and TSVM are not included here because they are designed for binary classi cation, and cannot cope well with the multiple-class classi cation problem.
In this table, IB still gives signi cant improvements against the baseline method NBC.
Therefore, we believe our algorithm IB is not only effective for English-Chinese cross-language classi cation, but also extensible for multiple-class classi cation.
Arts vs Computers Recreation vs Science








 e r u s a e m  






 Number of Iterations

 Figure 6: The F1-measure curves after each iterations on three data sets Arts vs Computers, Recreation vs Science and 3 Categories respectively.
Since our algorithm IB is an iterative algorithm, an important issue for IB is the convergence property.
Theorem 1 has already proven the convergence of IB theoretically.
Now, let us empirically show the convergence property of IB.
Figure 6 shows the test error rate curves as functions for each itera- tion on three data sets, Arts vs Computers, Recreation vs Science and 3 Categories.
From the  gure, it can be seen that IB always achieves almost convergence points within 10 iterations.
This indicates that IB converges very fast.
We believe that 10 iterations is empirically enough for IB.
The tremendous growth of the World Wide Web in China has raised the need for classifying and organizing Chinese Web space via classi cation techniques.
In this paper we
 to exploit the abundant labelled information in English.
In particular, we have developed a novel method known as the information bottleneck technique to address the topic drift and di erent feature-space problems across two languages.
Our method brings out a common part between the Chinese and English Web pages, which can be used to encode similar pages in di erent languages into the same codewords (class labels).
An iterative algorithm is presented to optimize the objective function and therefore solve this problem.
The experimental results show that our method can e ectively improve existing methods in general, including  ve binary and three multi-class problems.
To extend our work, we wish to modify our method to achieve a global optimal value.
It is also interesting to conduct more experiments in other language pair (e.g.
French vs English, which does not su er the word segmentation problem).
Moreover, our method has the potential to be e ective for the cross-language information retrieval problem.
Qiang Yang would like to thank the support of Hong Kong RGC Grant 621307.
We also thank the anonymous reviewers for their great helpful comments.
