Mobile phones are becoming increasingly ubiquitous throughout large portions of the world, especially in highly populated urban areas, where mobile phone penetration is almost 100%.
Mobile phone call networks extracted from call logs is a social network naturally, where the phone user is the node and there is an edge between them if they have communication at least once.
Mobile social network re ects people s interaction in social lives and has some advantages compared to other social network, e.g.
co-authorship network, email network and world wide web, to un-Copyright is held by the author/owner(s).
Jing-Yao Wang2 Kun-Qing Xie1
 {kunqing}@cis.pku.edu.cn cover the properties and structure of large-scale social network and human behavior in social lives.
However, because of the privacy problem, it is very dif cult to obtain the mobile phone call data and then there is no much scienti c research on this valuable data.
In this paper we construct the mobile social network of a city in China and analyze the statistic properties and structure of the network by using some important network metrics.
We extract the mobile social network from one month call logs of a city in China.
We get 2,590,361 phone users who have two attributes: age (from 15 to 70) and gender, which are computed from the Chinese Resident Identi cation Number.
We use an undi-rected binary graph to represent the mobile social network, where the nodes are users and the edges are relationships.
A show of the mobile social network by using Pajek [1] is in Figure 1(f), in which the triangle represents the male while ellipse represents the female and different colors represent the different age brackets.
The mobile social network with 2,590,361 nodes is not a connected graph, which has 56,601 connected subgraph and the largest connected subgraph has 2,532,298 nodes   the percentage is 97.76%.
The rest analysis of this paper will focus on the largest connected subgraph.
The degree of the node in mobile social network represents the number of friends the user has.
So in certain aspect the degree indicates how important or active the user is.
The degree distribution of the mobile social network is illustrated in Figure 1(a) and the average degree of the different age and gender is illustrated in Figure 1(b).
From Figure 1(a), we  nd that the degree distribution almost  ts the power law distribution like other social networks, e.g.
email network, co-authorship network, but the main difference is that the curve has a peak at the degree  ve.
We believe that this is not a noise but a true difference, because every people have some certain friends to contact in social lives, so the peak is not at degree one like other social networks.
From Figure 1(b), we  nd some very interesting results about human behavior: 1) the middle-age people are more active than the young and old people.
The distribution of the average degree re ects a person s behavior in the whole life: begin entering the society from about 20 years old; become very active in middle age (about 40 years old); and decay in the old age (after 60 years old); 2) the male is always more active than the female in the social network except in the old age, which is very interesting and (b) Average degree distribution (c) Average length of shortest path (d) Clustering Coef cient (e) Betweenness Centrality (f) The mobile social network Pajek Figure 1: Our experimental studies of mobile social networks on real mobile phone call logs con icts with our traditional thought.
We think this unusual result may be explained by Fischer and Oliker  theory [2], they suggest that age and lifestyle stage account for network differences, with young married men having larger networks than their wives, and the reverse being true for older married couples.
A shortest path between two nodes is a minimal length path between them.
The diameter is length of the longest shortest path.
It is impossible in practice to obtain the exact value of diameter in a large-scale network because of the too high computational cost.
So in this paper we approximate the bounds for the diameter by using the algorithms proposed in [4].
We obtain that the lower bound is 15 and the upper bound is 17.
We compute the average shortest path by sampling 2537 nodes in the network in Figure 1(c) and the overall average shortest path is 5.75, which proves the famous Six Degree of Separation Theory proposed by Stanley Milgram from another point of view.
It is very expensive to obtain the exact value of betweenness in large-scale network, so we use the sampling methods proposed in [3].
The distribution with different age and gender is plotted in Figure 1(e).
Because of the sampling the curve is  uctuated very badly, but we can conclude the similar results about human behavior of the different age and gender as Figure 1(b).
In this paper, we analyze the statistical properties and structure of a real large-scale mobile social network by using some important network metrics from the view of users  age and gender.
We  nd that mobile social network is a typical scale-free network and small-world network and also  nd some very interesting results about the human behavior of different age and gender in the social network.
This work is supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China under Grant No.60703066 and No.60874082.
