The Semantic Web offers much promise for users, potentially allowing them to better cooperate with data on computers and thus share and process it so that automation features can be put to work.
Metadata to de(cid:2)ne and link information on the web is essential for the Semantic Web to exist, yet its development can be extremely challenging because the vocabulary should be (cid:3)exible and extensible, widely applicable, and both machine and human readable.
It is important that computer science educators think creatively about how to ef(cid:2)ciently develop metadata.
This not only furthers the (cid:2)eld of education technically, it also ensurses that knowledge domains not be excluded from the Semantic Web.
That is, without an ontology to describe them, knowledge domains could become orphans by not coming onto the Semantic Web.
The existing standards for education metadata have been constructed to provide the (cid:2)eld of education with resources for instruction and thus refer to considerations like (cid:147)Interactivity Level(cid:148) (grade level of intended audience) and (cid:147)Interactivity Type(cid:148) (type of interactivity with learning resource) [4].
In contrast with courseware, educational research Copyright is held by the author/owner(s).
and technical assistance has yet to develop an ontology.
Without metadata, educators will not bene(cid:2)t from the Semantic Web in areas such as technical assistance.
We describe our efforts with nontechnical organizations to bring their work onto the Semantic Web.
Speci(cid:2)cally, we describe our work with numerous individuals and organizations with expertise in technical assistance education topics such as professional development, urban teacher preparation, equity, and school improvement to develop and re(cid:2)ne an ontology.
The resulting metadata was used to tag resources in a Semantic Web application in order to disseminate articles, reports, conferences and other resources.
Here, we report the process of metadata development with these organizations, its outcomes, and the challenges of this work.
In order for the educatonal organizations we worked with to use our Semantic Web application to help their members access resources, we had to (cid:2)rst work with them to develop and re(cid:2)ne meta-data.
These organizations thought of the specialized collections of resources they wanted to disseminate in terms of their local knowledge.
That is, their conceptual frameworks and descriptions had been developed over time as that community socially constructed knowledge together.
Sometimes these ways of describing important ideas and resources were not explicit as a framework so they found it dif(cid:2)cult at the outset of the metadata development process to upfront engineer a comprehensive and cohesive set of quali(cid:2)ers and control vocabularies.
Because it was both time-consuming and frustrating for them when we tried to engineer aspects of a metadata vocabulary in advance, we switched to a (cid:147)grounded(cid:148) co-development process to generate the metadata.
We use the term grounded because we started with the knowledge of these communities of practice and let the metadata vocabulary arise from it, so it could best convey their meanings.
Our strategy was to let the organizations rely upon their own community s vocabulary for organizing resources and modify it over time as they saw (cid:2)t. We wanted vocabularies to also aid the search of the resources by their eventual users, and so it was critical that the ontology we created across the communities allow each one to use descriptors relevant for its group of users.
As subject headings would slowly evolved, they had to be combined into a meaningful hierarchy.
As we engaged these educators in the process of knowledge representation, we had to re(cid:2)ne our cataloguing tool to accommodate the constantly evolving schema.
When initiating development of our ontology in Spring 2001,
 extensively by the learners visiting the Web Site.
The DC-Ed elements of (cid:147)Standards(cid:148) and (cid:147)Audience(cid:148) were used extensively.
Many of the other elements and quali(cid:2)ers we implemented were ignored or used inconsistently, suggesting they were not of relevance to this community at this time.
We involved organizations that provide technical assistance to educators in metadata development.
We built an application that catalogues and presents research-validated recommendations made by these organizations within their own metadata framework.
We offered these organizations a (cid:3)exible framework for organizing information using metadata that they could evolve to keep relevant to the communities of practice that they served.
This process contributes to the provisions on the Semantic Web of (1) content about effective professional practices, (2) resource providers available to assist educators in planning for and implementing these practices, and (3) research and evaluation data that attest to the ef(cid:2)cacy of these practices and resource providers.
Metadata cannot be rigid and in(cid:3)exible; they must evolve and be constantly re(cid:2)ned [8] [6].
As new stakeholders use our software, they exert pressure to ensure that the metadata evolve.
Since it is often easer to be redundant than to collaborate, useful Semantic Web applications must facilitate detecting and addressing duplication of metadata on a continual basis.
Effective collaboration between organizations will remain a central challenge to realizing the vision of the Semantic Web.
For us, operationally, this has meant the development of software that allows constant re(cid:2)nement of metadata categories to avoid overlap; allows these organizations to make incremental improvements to an integrated ontology; and minimizes the labor of cataloging, combining, and re-cataloging resources.
