Numerous design and usability guidelines suggested that a site map is necessary for every web site [4, 6].
A site map that mirrors the site structure well can help the user to reduce the feeling of being lost during navigation [1], to understand the organization of the site, and to search for required information quickly and accurately [3, 5].
However, site maps were not as successful as they had been expected, and users often overlooked site maps or were reluctant to use them [6].
This may be due to the fact that most site maps were hidden within the web site and users were required to locate the hyperlink to access the site map page before they could use the site map.
Also, users were required to switch between the site map and the web site when using the site map to navigate.
It has been shown that a constant site overview is beneficial for users when performing information-seeking tasks [2].
Providing users with a visible site map, therefore, may encourage users to use it and to take advantage of it.
Another advantage of using the site map page during navigation is that it provides shortcuts to the important pages of a site so that one can have access to those pages easily with just a single click [4].
However, a heavily interlinked site may cause disorientation [3].
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s).
In this study, the effects of these two characteristics of a site map were examined.
It is expected that users will perform better with a visible site map rather than with a hidden one, and with a site map with hyperlinks than one without hyperlinks.
Also, it is expected that the effects of a site map on users  performance will be greater for a larger web site than a smaller one.
Forty-two students (22 males and 20 females) of the PSY100 class at the University of Toronto participated in the study.
The experiment was conducted with a Pentium III desktop computer, equipped with the logging software, ErgoBrowser .
Participants were assigned to one of the five conditions: visible site map with hyperlinks (V_L), visible site map without hyperlinks (V_NL), hidden site map with hyperlinks (H_L), hidden site map without hyperlinks (H_NL), and the control condition of no site map (C).
All participants were asked to perform an information-searching task on three web sites of three companies: AW, CS, and SV.
The web sites have 45, 109, and 24 individual web pages respectively.
The web sites were mirrored testing computer.
Participants had to find answers to nine questions for each web site.
The questions for the web sites were similar, and required navigation to different parts of the web site.
Participants always started from the  Home  page of the site for each question.
Most of the answers were 1 to 4 clicks away from the start page.
The order of the web sites was counterbalanced to minimize possible learning effects.
The response variables were the participants  performance in the information-searching task, measured by the percentage of correct answers, the task-completion time, the total number of pages visited, and the total number of clicks required.
into the
 Participants received instructions depending on the experimental condition they were in.
All participants were told not to use any  search  or  find  functions throughout the experiment.
The set of questions for each web site was given to the participants in print, with only one question printed on each page, so that only one question could be seen at a time.
Table 1.
Mean values (standard deviation) of the dependent measures on the three web sites for the five site map conditions Cond.
% of correct answers


 Task-completion time (s)




















 # of pages

















 # of clicks



















 The results implied that it is important to make the site structure explicit, and providing a visible and easily accessible site map can enhance user s performance.
Also, hyperlinks can sometimes affect the success rate of finding the correct information.
In addition, the role of a site map becomes more important when the web site increases in size.
Web design guidelines should take all of these into consideration.
The author thanks participants who spent their time to join the study, and ErgoSoft for the evaluation copy of ErgoBrowser .
This research was supported by an IBM Center for Advanced Studies Fellowship to April Yip and by a grant to Ian Spence from Communications and Information Technology Ontario (CITO) and a Collaborative Research and Development (CRD) grant from the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council (NSERC) of Canada.
