The social web, the most interesting part of the Web 2.0, aims at bringing people together and facilitating richer interaction among them.
It is characterized by a strong focus on communities where people share experiences, information and knowledge, meet and discuss, or do business together.
The social web challenges will be studied in this workshop from two perspectives: knowledge management and social web search and mining.
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s).
Knowledge management systems focus on knowledge and experience sharing.
They enhance organization capabilities by externalizing knowledge of its employees and combine them in novel forms.
Therefore, there is a common interest in social structures as well as social computing in both  elds.
The social web can be the common underlying platform for novel and web-based knowledge management systems.
It breaks up rigid processes and enables much richer interaction possibilities and creativity.
In this workshop we bring together people from the areas of social web technologies, semantic systems, and knowledge management.
The main purpose of the workshop is to study synergies between social computing, social web, semantic systems, and knowledge management and provide a look at the current state of the art in the area.
Main topics of interest in the areas of Social Semantic Web and Knowledge Management include but are not limited to:   Knowledge management, semantics and social web   Flexible processes for knowledge management on social web   Wikis, blogs and other means for information sharing   Personalization and User Modeling in semantic wikis, blogs, and other Web 2.0 applications   Personalized Search in the social web   Reasoning and Reason Maintanace on the social web   Text and media extraction, clustering and classi cation and social web   Privacy and security for knowledge management and social web   Theoretical models of communities on social web   Discovering social structures and communities   Evolution and temporal analysis of online social networks   Integration of heterogeneous social web applications   Applications of social web
   Harith Alani, University of Southampton, UK   Anupriya Ankolekar, HP Labs, Palo Alto, USA   Francois Bry, LMU Munich, Germany   John Davies, BT, Ipswich, UK   Norbert Eisinger, LMU Munich, Germany   Hans-J org Happel, FZI, Karlsruhe, Germany   Tom Heath, Open University, UK   Martin Hepp, STI Innsbruck, University of Innsbruck, Austria   Nick Kings, BT, Ipswich, UK   Hong-Gee Kim, Seoul National University, South Korea   Qing Li, City University of Hong Kong, China   Peter Mika, Yahoo!
Research, Barcelona, Spain   Peter Axel Nielsen, AAU Aalborg, Denmark   Natasha Noy, Stanford University, USA   Eyal Oren, VU Amsterdam, The Netherlands   Valentina Presutti, Institute of Cognitive Sciences and Technology (CNR), Italy   Timothy K. Shih, Tamkang University, Taiwan   Elena Simperl, STI Innsbruck, University of Innsbruck, Austria   Pavel Smrz, BUT Brno, Czech Republic   York Sure, SAP Research, CAC Karlsruhe, Germany   Hideaki Takeda, Tokyo Research Institute, Japan   Marcel Tilly, European Microsoft Innovation Center, Aachen, Germany   Tania Tudorache, Stanford University, USA

 SWKM2008 workshop received  fteen submissions out of which we have selected six for presentation and publication in workshop proceedings.
The accepted contributions span across various topics such as generation of user pro les from folksonomies, maintenance costs for large hyperstructures in wikis, access permissions set according to transitive relationships in social networks, tagging, link sharing as well as service integration for cultural heritage.
[6, 4] focus tagging in social web.
The  rst paper describes an analysis of personal data in folksonomies and proposes a clustering-based algorithm for generating user pro les which re ect multiple user interests accurately [6].
The second paper describes a  rst step towards a reference framework to support semantic characterization of web content [6].
[5, 2] focus on collaborative co-creation of information structures on the social web.
StYLiD [5] proposes a system which supports sharing of user de ned information structures of various kinds.
The system provides semiautomatic support for aligning such structures thus creating a uni ed view and consolidation of knowledge entered into the system.
A proposal for co-creation of cultural heritage for the mobile web, where individual users contribute and collectively evolve shared resources is described in [2].
Relationships in social networks are exploited by [3].
The paper studies how transitive relationships in social network can contribute to trust access permissions.
It exploits a graph based approach and shows that it is su cient to set permissions at the closest neighbor level.
The social network then propagates permissions, using speci c algorithms as outlined in the paper.
Reported practical results indicate that the approch could indeed be promising.
Last but not least, [1] presents results of a study on the evolution of hyperstructures in wikis.
Moreover, they discuss how approaches developed in the hypertext community can be applied in the context of (semantic) wikis for document and knowledge management.
This event is supported by the EU projects ACTIVE1 and KIWI2.
We would like to thank our program committee members for invaluable work dedicated to the reviews.
We also would like to thank authors of submitted papers for their contributions which allowed for a very attractive program.
