With the explosive growth of information on the Web, search engines become more and more important in people s daily lives.
According to [1], most search users only view the first few URLs in result lists, so internet service providers want their pages to be ranked as high as possible by search engines to capture more user attention.
Web spam can be defined as any attempt to get  an unjustifiably favorable relevance or importance score for some Web page, considering the page s true value  [2].
Because Web spam leads to obstacles to users  information acquisition process, spam detection is treated as a major challenge for search engines.
Currently, anti-spam techniques usually make use of Web page s content [3] or hyperlink features [4] to construct classifier and identify spam pages.
After a certain kind of Web spam appears in search result lists, engineers examine the characteristics of this spam type and design the specific strategies to identify it.
However, once a kind of spam is detected and banned, the spammers will turn to develop new Web spam instantly.
With this method, anti-spam techniques can only identify Web spam which has already caused severe loss and drawn search engineers  attention.
In contrast to the prevailing approaches, we propose a different anti-spam framework in which spam sites are identified because of their deceitful motivation instead of their content/hyper-link appearance.
We introduce three features developed from user behavior pattern analyses and design a learning-based approach to combine these behavior features to identify Web spam pages.
In order to analyze into the behavior pattern of Web users, we collected Web access log from July 1st, 2007 to August 26th, 2007 Copyright is held by the author/owner(s).
the help using browser of Sohu.com with toolbars (http://tb.sogou.com/).
No private information is included in these access logs but user sessions can be identified by different session IDs.
Source and Destination URLs of user clicks and user s stay time in a certain page are also recorded.
The access log contains over 2.74 billion user clicks on 800 million Web pages and 22.1 million user sessions during 57 days.
1 We also construct Web spam training and test sets to verify the effectiveness of the proposed algorithm.
During the time period in which the access log was collected, we had three assessors examine the search result lists of the 1000 most frequently asked queries in Sogou search engine (http://www.sogou.com/).
By this means, 802 spam sites were identified and used in feature selection process as training set.
A different set of 1149 Web sites were random selected from the sites whose access behavior was recorded.
These sites were annotated as spam or not and used for performance evaluation.
Based on analysis into the different user behavior patterns between Web spam pages and ordinary pages, we propose three features to identify spam pages.
Firstly, spam pages try to attract Web user s attention but its content is not as valuable as it appears.
Therefore, Web spam page receives most of its user visiting from search engines instead of from non-spam pages or bookmark lists.
We define the Search Engine Oriented Visiting rate (SEOV rate) of a certain page p as:
 p )( = (# Search engine oriented pof ) (# Visits visits pof ) (1) It is seldom for Web spam pages to be visited except through search result lists; but ordinary pages may be visited by other means.
Therefore, the SEOV values of Web spam pages should be higher than ordinary pages.
Secondly, user attention is one of the most important resources for WWW information providers.
Ordinary Web site owners always want to keep users navigating in their sites as long as possible.
However, spammers  major purpose to construct spam sites is to guide users to advertisements or services they wouldn t like to see.
Therefore, most Web users tend to end their navigation in spam sites as soon as they noticed the spamming activities.
We can define two behavior features to describe this different user visiting pattern between ordinary and spam pages.
The Start Point Visiting rate (SP rate) feature describes how many clicks are performed on a certain page p and it can be defined as: (2) visiting clicks while user (# p a )
 ( p ) = hyperlink Visits (# pon pof ) The Short-term Navigation rate (SN rate) shows how many pages of a site s will be visited once user visit s and can be defined as:
 Natural Science Foundation (60621062, 60503064, 60736044) and National 863 High Technology Project (2006AA01Z141)

 s )( = Sessions in (# which Sessions users in visit which less users
 than visit s pages ) sin ) (3) we examine the top-ranked Web pages in the spam-possibility list given by our algorithm and analyze their spamming techniques.
In order to validate the effectiveness of the three proposed features, we compared the differences in feature distribution between ordinary page and spam pages.
For instance, statistic of the SEOV feature is shown in Figure 1.
Ordinary Page Spam Page









 e g a t n e c r e


 Figure 1.
Search Engine Oriented Visiting (SEOV) rate distribution of ordinary and Web spam pages.
In Figure 1, over 80% ordinary pages get less than 10% of their visiting from search engines; while almost 50% Web spam pages receive over half of their navigation from search result lists.
Therefore, we can see that most Web spam pages  SEOV value is higher than ordinary pages because search engine is the target of Web spamming and sometimes the only way in which spam can be visited.
The SP and SN features can also separate Web spam from ordinary pages.
According to our statistics, for 48% spam pages, almost none (less than 5%) users click any hyperlink on them (SP <
 of their readers (SP > 0.3).
For the SN feature with N=3, 53% ordinary pages have almost none (less than 10%) short navigations (SN < 0.1); meanwhile 96% Web spam s SN value is over 0.6.
User-behavior features mentioned in Section 2.1 can be used to identify Web spam pages.
In order to combine these features, we try to use na ve Bayes learning method which is believed to be both effective and efficient for low dimensional instance spaces.
Spam (# p | has p pP (   n   = ( i =
 feature has feature
 i Spam (#

 , ) ,...,

 n Spam training p   raining set ) set ) feature p has (# Ordinary (#
 i page ) (4) ) ) information from With Bayes assumption and features  independent assumption, the probability of a Web page being a Web spam page can be calculated with the Web corpus and its corresponding spam page sample set according to Equation (4).
We choose ROC curves and corresponding AUC values to evaluate the performance of our spam detection algorithm because it is a useful technique for organizing classifiers and visualizing their performance.
In Figure 1, SP and SEOV are more effective than the SN feature in detecting Web spam.
It also shows that the proposed learning algorithm gains better performance than any of the three features.
The AUC value for the algorithm s ROC curve is 0.7926, which means our detection algorithm has 79.26% chances to rank a Web spam higher than a non-spam in its spam-possibility result list.
In practical search applications we care more about whether the detected possible spam pages are really Web spam pages.
Therefore, e t a
 e v i t i s o
 e u r















 All features





 False Positive Rate



 Figure 2.
ROC curves on test sets using Bayesian learning to combine SEOV, SP and SN features, compared with the curves on test sets using a certain user-behavior feature only.
Experimental results in Table 1 show that only a few (5.98%) of the top-ranked pages are misidentified.
Analysis into these non-spam pages shows that they are mostly low-quality pages that adopt some kind of SEO techniques to attract users.
Reducing them will not cause major loss for most Web users.
Table 1.
Types of the top 300 possible spam pages given by user-behavior based spam detection method Page Type Non-spam pages Web spam pages Percentage


 Pages that cannot be accessed In the top-ranked Web pages of our possible spam list, there are also a number of pages which cannot be accessed at the time of assessment.
We believe that most of these pages are spam because spam pages usually change their URL to bypass search engines  spam list.
Meanwhile, ordinary pages wouldn t change their domain name because that hurts their rankings in search engines.
In this paper, we propose user-behavior-oriented Web spam detection framework, it is a feasible solution to identify Web spam pages effectively and type-independently.
In the near future, we hope to extend this framework to embody the state-of-the-art page content and hyperlink features.
We also plan to work on a Web page quality estimation model based on our findings in this paper.
