Consider an ambiguous query [3]  apple  queried on a search engine.
The search relevance can be improved if we know which  apple  user is interested in.
One of the better ways to present the relevant search results would be to cluster the results wherein we have a cluster for each distinct concept in which the word apple can be used, e.g, Apple (corporation) or Apple (fruit).
However most clustering algorithms require the number of clusters as an input.
This requires multiple iterations seeking an optimal number based on some statistical criteria which may or may not guarantee consistency within and across di erent clusters.
Thus, in this example as well as other applications including word sense disambiguation, knowing number of unique concepts in which a word can be used would be an invaluable asset.
In this poster we propose an algorithm to determine all possible unique concepts for a given ambiguous word.
We do so by using the Wikipedia.
Wikipedia has been recently used for named entity disambiguation [1] and word sense disam-biguation(WSD) [2] tasks.
In [2] contextual text surrounding the ambiguous word in addition to the word itself is used without explicitly enumerating the distinct concepts of the Copyright is held by the author/owner(s).
ambiguous word.
In case of web queries which are typically very short such an approach may not be an option.
Wikipedia is a collection of articles where each article de- nes and describes an entity or an event.
Each article may have several hyperlinks to the other pages within or outside Wikipedia and is uniquely referenced by a title.
Title is composed of one or more words and occasionally an explanation in parenthesis clarifying the context of the article.
For example, the article for mercury with the meaning of  automobile  has the unique identi er mercury (automobile).
Ambiguous surface form is hyper linked to the appropriate article using a pipe, e.g., link from the word orange to an article on Orange Color (if applicable), as in [[Orange (Color)|Orange]].
This can generally be represented as [[Concept Identi er| Surface form]] pair.
The phrase  concept identi er  and the word concept is used interchangeably.
We use this structural information within the Wikipedia to identify possible concepts for a given ambiguous word.
Since these links have been manually created and reviewed by a large diverse audience, they are accurate in referencing the article clarifying the context in which the surface form has been used.
We parse the Wikipedia1 to extract all the hyperlinked occurrences of a word.
While parsing, the disambiguation pages, pages associated with dates and pages enumerating the lists are excluded.
Wikipedia, being updated regularly by a diverse group of people re ects the realistic use of these concepts.
Therefore, we use the occurrence count in the  rst pass to obtain the ranked list R(cid:2) of concepts associated with = {C1, C2, .
.
.
, Cn} and rank of Ci > a keyword such that R(cid:2) rank of Cj for i < j.
Top 20 such concepts for ambiguous keyword  Bush  are enumerated in table 1.
Most surface forms are found to associate with a large number of concepts, e.g., surface form Orange is associated with about 150 concepts, Mercury with 110 concepts etc.
However large number of these concepts might not be unique as seen in the table 1 where concepts  george w.
bush ,  george walker bush  and  george w bush  represent the same concept.
We re-rank R(cid:2)  ltering it for the duplicate concepts.
Consider a directed graph G = {V, E} where each vertex V , represents a Wikipedia article or a concept.
There exists

  bush  before the list is  ltered and re-ranked.
Rank 1-10 george w. bush bush (band) Rank 11-20 bush family bush alaska george h. w. bush george walker bush the bush shrub alaskan bush outback george h.w.
bush bush (canadian band) uss bush (dd-529) bush, alabama forest george herbert walker bush george w bush bush plane woody plant bush, illinois an outgoing edge from two vertices Vi and Vj, Vi   Vj , if there is an outgoing hyperlink from article i to j in the Wikipedia.
Example graph is shown in  gure 1, where C1 and C2 might represent  george w. bush  and  george walker bush .
Given a ranked list R(cid:2) containing concepts C1, C2, .
.
.
, Ck we seek  ltering measures to re-rank the list and prune the duplicate concepts.
If concept Ci   Cj under some measure M , then the concept Ci is subsumed If a concept Cj subsumes concepts by the concept Cj.
Ci, Ck, .
.
.
, Cl, the counts of these concepts are added to Cj thereby increasing its score and possibly the rank.
Ranked list R(cid:2) is processed sequentially starting with the concept node at the top of R(cid:2) .
Graph beginning from this node is parsed in a depth  rst search fashion to identify concepts Ci, where i > j such that Ci   Cj under the measure M de ned later.
Since there are cycles in the graph we halt processing of a node if we encounter its ancestor.
We now compute three measures and combine them to re-rank R(cid:2) .
The  rst measure checks for the existence of a bidirectional link between the two concepts.
Mb(Ci, Cj ) = I((Cj   Ci)   (Ci   Cj)) (1) where, I is an Indicator variable.
Thus, a concept Cj may subsume Ci if Mb = 1.
Mb measure however is a greedy measure and concept Ci may subsume weakly related concept Cj due to a presence of a bidirectional link, e.g., Orange Color and Syracuse Orange.
If two concepts share a subset of outbound and inbound links they are likely to be similar.
The second and third measure (not shown) count the overlap between the inbound and outbound links.
Operators In(C) and Out(C) return a set of inbound and outbound links for concept C and |x| returns the cardinality of the set x.
MOB is similar to MIB but de ned instead on the outbound links.
   |In(Cm)   In(Cn)| |In(Cm)   In(Cn)| MIB (Cm, Cn) = max |In(Cn)| The fourth measure combines these three measures, , |In(Cm)|      1MIB (Cm, Cn)+ 2MOB(Cm, Cn) M (Cm, Cn) = Mb(Cm, Cn)  where,  1 +  2 = 1.
Measure M yields values in [0, 1], and a higher value indicates more similarity.
A concept in list R(cid:2) , Cj , subsumes Ci, where i > j if M (Cm, Cn) > P V al. P V al is determined empirically to be 0.24.
Concepts which occur less than 5 times are discarded.
The pruned concept lists for the ambiguous words bush and mercury are shown in table 2.
Figure 1: Concept Graph Table 2: Concepts after  ltering the list R(cid:2) words bush and Mercury for key-Bush George W. Bush Bush (band) Bush alaska Forest Bush LA Mercury Mercury (element) Mercury (planet) Mercury (records) Mercury (mythology) Mercury (automobile)

 We evaluate the ranked list of concepts R by examining its coverage over top 30 results returned by a major search engine on querying the ambiguous words from [2, 3].
Human annotators were shown the retrieved pages and asked to assign the concept to a page from the list R which best describes the content on that page, e.g., Orange telecom for a page related to  Orange mobile company .
In addition to concepts in the list R associated with the ambiguous word, annotator could also assign the labels  Can t Say ,  Other: Not de ned here  and  Tech Error  in cases when they could not reliably identify a concept, or if the concept on webpage was not mentioned in the list or if an error occurred in loading a webpage.
We obtained a percentage coverage of over 85% for top 30 documents and 89% for top 5 documents averaged across all the keywords.
Coverage is low for the concept jordan because jordan in Wikipedia has not been used to refer to  michael jordan, professor  or several other  rms by that name which were part of the retrieved results.
Coverage should improve to an extent on using the latest version of the Wikipedia dump.
