We de ne Visual Web Mining (VWM) as application of Information Visualization techniques on results of Web Mining in order to further amplify the perception of extracted patterns and visually explore new ones in web domain.
The Visual Web Mining Framework, initially described in [5], provides a prototype implementation for applying information visualization techniques on the results of Data Mining, in this case Spade Sequence Mining Algorithm [6].
The same is applicable to the other related data mining algorithms for mining the websites e.g.
Tree Mining and Graph Mining.
A robot (webbot 1) is used to retrieve the pages of the website.
In parallel, Web Server Log  les are downloaded and processed through a sessionizer2 and a LOGML  le is generated.
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s).
Figure 1: Sample implementation architecture of VWM Data Mining Suite, Link Analysis Suite and User Pro ling/Modeling Suite need special data formats as input and produce output in propriety formats hence the Integration Engine is required to covert the data.
The Integration Engine is a suite of programs for data preparation i.e. extracting, cleaning, transforming, integrating data and  nally loading into database and later generating graphs in XGML.
The engine uses XQuery, XSLT and Regular Expressions on both standard and propriety data formats.
Much effort is put into enhancing performance of the transformation system in the Integration Engine and the database.
We extract user sessions from web logs, this yields results of roughly related to a speci c user.
User sessions are then converted into a special format for Sequence Mining using cSPADE (continues Spade).
Outputs are frequent contiguous sequences with a given minimum support.
These are imported into a database, and non-maximal frequent sequences are removed, i.e. we consider only the maximal (based on subsequence relation) frequent contiguous sequences.
Later different queries are executed against this data according to some criterion, e.g.
support of each pattern, length of patterns, etc.
We unify different URLs which correspond to the same webpage in the  nal results.
We have extended VTK for graph visualization by developing a library called vtkGraph 3.
Two approaches to visualize the output of data mining have been implemented using this library.
In the  rst approach [5] we extract a spanning tree from the site structure, and use this as the framework for presenting access-related results through glyphs and color mapping.
3see [2] and http://www.comp.leeds.ac.uk/djd/graphs/
 graph.
This graph is then laid out, using one of the following two approaches: A) a form of Sugiyama layout, described by Auber [1] or B) using higher dimensional embedding [3].
Here the graph is  rst drawn within a higher dimensional space, and then projected into 2 or 3 dimensions via the Principal Components of this space.
Variable-width tubes showing mined access paths with different traf c are introduced on top of the web graph structure.
Here, depending on the type of visualization diagram, particular weights, e.g.
support of a single click-stream, total sum of support on all click-streams, or the support extracted from Mining algorithm is mapped onto the width (radius) of the stream tube.
Color mapping can be used on the number of users leaving the website (or a cluster of these in a zoomed view), a property of the graph structure (such as the Strahler value), or simply the number of hits of some branch.
Figure 2 is a visualization of web usage based on Strahler numbering for assigning colors to the edges.
Strahler numbers were originally an attempt to give quantitative information about the complexity or shape of a tree.
Herman et al [4] were the  rst to propose using them for graph visualization.
They described how these numbers could be used to provide visual cues about tree structure.
The Strahler numbers were then generalized further by Auber [1] to provide a means of characterizing the structural complexity of a graph.
Figure 2: Left: 2D visualization with Strahler Coloring applied on web usage logs.
Right: Adding third dimension enables visualization of more information and clari es user behavior in and between clusters.
Center node of circular basement is  rst page of web site from which users scatter to different clusters of web pages.
Color spectrum from Red (entry point into clusters) to Blue (exit points) illustrates behavior of users.
The cylinder-like part of  gure 2 (right) is visualization of web usage of surfers as they browse a long HTML document converted from LATEX by LaTeX2HTML software.
In  gure 3, combination of a few visualizations techniques facilitates  nding new patterns and analyzing the ones already found by data mining algorithms.
Our software framework design enables  exible selection of mappings between data attributes and visualization dimensions suitable in different diagrams e.g.
con dence-transparency mapping.
Using  gure 4, a web analyzer can easily identify which parts of the website are cold parts with few hits and which parts are hot ones with many hits.
This also paves the way for making exploratory changes in website and to analyze the changes in user access.
For instance, a webmaster can change link structure (e.g.
by adding a hyperlink to a cold cluster from the  rst page of website or any page in hot clusters) and observe users  navigation paths in the real world.
We extend de nition of Visual Web Mining and design different visualization diagrams, each of which gives a new viewpoint for Figure 3: Left: Frequent access patterns extracted by web mining process with a special range of con dence values are visually superimposed as a graph of node-tubes (as opposed to node-links).
Thickness of the tubes represents aggregated support of mined sequences which correnponds to frequency of found patterns.
Size of clickable Cube Glyphs represents hit of webpages.
Right: Superimposition of Web Usage on top of Web Structure with higher order layout.
Top node is the  rst page of website.
Hierarchical output of layouts make analysis easier.
Figure 4: Left: Superimposition of website dynamics(colored) on top of its static structure(gray).
Right: Zoom view of colored region with layout of Web Usage taken from Web Graph basement.
The basement itself is removed for clarity.
exploring frequent patterns of user access on a website.
Different visual superimposition diagrams are of particular interest.
We classify webpages into two classes of hot and cold ones, attracting high and low number of visitors.
A webmaster can make exploratory changes to website structure (e.g.
by adding links between hot and cold parts) and analyze the change in user access patterns in the real world.
Given the interactive and graphical nature of our work, we encourage the reader to browse through the  gures and download video clips of the system in action from the VWM project webpage 4.
