In the last years, with the expansion of the World Wide Web (WWW), the individually owned and controlled web-based personal health record (Google Health1, Microsoft Health Vault2 and NHS HealthSpace amongst others) have appeared.
Therefore, the amount of accessible information about health care has increased enormously.
This situation means that a vast amount of information of varying quality is disseminated.
However, these new document repositories create new opportunities and challenges.
In order to provide a more personalized and tailored service to their users, the need of an e cient and reliable information  ltering process is critical.
The web-based PHRs use the health data exchange standards with the aim of representing clinical data.
In these 1http://www.google.com/intl/es/health/about/index.html 2www.healthvault.com Copyright is held by the author/owner(s).
standards the relevant health information is reliably and unambiguously tagged using XML within a single  le.
The use of XML allows that this information can be read, understood and processed for any application which uses the standard.
Google Health and Microsoft Health use a subset of the CCR (Continuity of Care Record) standard.
The CCR standard is the most used patient health summary.
A document in CCR format is a XML document that consists of a header, a footer, and a body of health data organized into as many as 17 sections, e.g.
problems and conditions, medications list, allergies list, family history, procedures, encounters, etc..
These web-based PHRs are examples of multi-user document repositories.
The clinical reports can be read for different users (nurses, physicians, students) and for di erent purposes (diagnosis, learning, research).
When a document repository has many users and many purposes, there are di erent points of view of the same repository structure.
Therefore, it is necessary a technique able to manage these di erent points of view in knowledge retrieval tasks.
In this case, fuzzy logic is especially recommendable due to its special features to model information retrieval applications.
BUCEFALO provides a single interface for di erent sources of patient records.
These web-based PHRs could be stored in Internet or in native XML databases (eXist, Software AG Tamino, etc.).
The user only has to send a query and the system will answer the  ltered and adapted results.
There are two main components in our tool, the search component and the  ltering component (Fig. 1).
The  rst increases the semantic capability of user queries and the second is used to organize the retrieved information.
Both are important to improve the capability of retrieving information and to adapt the answer to each user.
Therefore, both are based on user pro les and healthcare ontologies.
The search step consists of the following phases in order to transform the original user query:
 abbreviations is very frequent.
In order to process the query as fast as possible, the tool uses a simple e cient algorithm for extracting abbreviations and their de -nitions from biomedical texts implemented by Shwartz and Hearst [4].
rules implemented by a fuzzy controller which represents the user preferences.
  User Pro le Filtering: The tool uses a user pro le with two components.
The  rst component is an ontological de nition of the professional categories (specialist, nurse, student), main search purposes (diagnosis, research, learning) and the user domain of knowledge.
This representation is extracted from MeSH.
The second component is the information feedback.
Each obtained document has associated a relevance feedback button asking the user for scoring the usefulness of that result.
Some experiments have been carried out in order to analyze the tool perfomance.
First, we have built a collection of CCR documents using clinical cases extracted from Internet and CCR templates.
This collection has been stored in a native XML database.
Next, a test experiment has been designed with three health care pro esionals: a nurse, a physician and a researcher.
In the experiment, they have analyzed ten queries transformed and expanded according to their user pro les.
In this test we achieve an 85% of correct transformations.
The second user test consisted in analyzing the results obtained after the  ltering process using the above-mentioned queries.
In this test the average number of relevant documents that were  ltered was the 80%.
This work presents a tool with the aim of improving the retrieval tasks in web-based Personal Healtcare Records based on CCR XML documents.
This approach will provide more relevant documents for the users, due to the consideration of their user pro les in the making search decisions and the use of several techniques of query expansion and category-based  ltering.
At this moment, this tool is only a prototype.
The next step is assessing BUCEFALO with real world sources of CCR documents and taking in account users  dynamically changing criteria of relevance.
Nevertheless, several tests with particular collections of documents have been carried out, obtaining good results.
