The growth of the Web leads to high popularity of the online search services.
Meeting the demand, Web search engines (SE) show superior productivity and extensive content coverage.
Aiming for satisfying as many Web surfers as possible, search engines employ modest user interfaces in addition to simple query syntax by default and make strong assumptions about user behavior, preferences, etc.
Searchers with specific information needs do not always benefit from this approach.
In this poster, we propose a solution for focused Web information retrieval, which emphasizes the query specification stage of the retrieval process (in contrast for example, to analyzing page contents or link structure [2]) and aims at employing the power of the all-purpose search engines.
We introduce ProThes, a system Copyright is held by the author/owner(s).
Anton Shishkin Institute of Engineering Sciences

 + 7 (343) 374 5953 whoarym@imach.uran.ru that combines meta-search, graphical user interface for query specification, and thesaurus-based query techniques.
ProThes customization is achieved by means of a conceptual thesaurus that is used for various query operations and simple heuristics for results merging and partial re-ranking.
The separation of the domain-specific knowledge from the system logic allows easily switching between different domains.
ProThes is a Web service developed using Java 2 Enterprise Edition (J2EE) platform.
The server part includes a thesaurus component (T), query and response dispatchers (QD and RD respectively), and search engine gates (fig. 1).
The gates to Google (www.google.com) and Yandex, Russian leading SE (www.yandex.ru) have already been implemented.
GUI Client



 Google Gate Yandex Gate ProThes Server

 Google Yandex Figure 1.
Overall System Architecture The client is a GUI application developed using Java Swing library.
It consists of a thesaurus visualization component, a query constructor, and a results representation area (in a separate window).
The thesaurus is a key component of the proposed MSE.
The basic element of the suggested thesaurus is a concept rather than a term.
A concept is defined purely through associated terms.
By this approach, we, first, gain a simple structure for describing various types of synonymy (including cross-language equivalents) and polysemy.
Second, we can effectively choose the appropriate granularity of the knowledge representation.
Third, we operate on a higher conceptual level than the lexical one.
Moreover, we assume that an accurate knowledge description can demand various semantic link types between concepts.
Hence we would not limit link types set supposing that it must be adjusted to the specificity of each domain.
However, as a singular case a 222thesaurus can be imagined in which each concept is presented by a single term and concepts are connected by no-named (e.g.
statistically produced) links.
The main idea is to let the developers choose thesaurus structure and link types freely.
An XML Scheme for thesauri was developed.
In general, the instance thesaurus consists of a header and a set of concept entries; each of them consists in its turn of definition, links, and a set of term entries.
On the bottom level lie terms along with associated acronyms, cognates, variants, and usage contexts.
Most of the thesaurus elements are optional.
Developer of an instance thesaurus can expand the set of link types using the XML redefine mechanism.
Discussion on the thesaurus model and the format particularities can be found in [1].
The developed core XML Schema is available at http://imach.uran.ru/pb/thesaurus/thesaurus.xsd.
A Russian-English thesaurus of the domain  Automated Optical Inspection of the Printed Circuit Boards  was build manually from scratch.
It consists mainly of PCB and computer vision related concepts.
The thesaurus contains approximately 200 concepts, 800 terms, and 750 one-way links as of January 2004.
Visualizing concept network along with definitions, related concepts, associated terms, terms usage etc., ProThes maintains the pickup metaphor of manual query building.
User can specify a query as an AND-OR-ANDNOT-tree, choosing appropriate terms from the thesaurus network (fig. 2).
(e.g.
a Russian query is sent to Yandex, an English one   to Google).
For queries built with the thesaurus appear frequently too strict, the second kind of automatic transformations is query loosening and is similar to the one proposed in [3].
A query can be loosened gradually by omitting quotation marks, adding quasi-synonyms, replacing AND with OR.
An important task ProThes has to execute is results merging and re-ranking.
Domain-specific preferences can be expressed in an initialization XML file, so the final document s position in the merged list depends on its position in the initial response list, the SE confidence, the file size, date and extension, as well as domain name.
In the latter case the URLs from specific Web directory sections can be used.
However, lacking for both global statistics and documents themselves, we can concern only partial re-ranking.
Combining three established techniques,   meta-search, graphical user interface for query specification, and thesaurus-based query operations,   we try to balance out the universality of the Web search engines and the specificity of the user information needs.
Our preliminary experiments have shown that automatic query techniques, although being very helpful in many cases, fail to deliver consistently good results.
Hence, the automatically produced expressions should be considered rather as suggestions than as ready-to-send queries.
Manual procedures of thesaurus building can be a bottleneck of the proposed approach.
In our future work we are going to address the problem of the automated lexical acquisition.
The project was supported in part by the Russian Fund of Basic Research, grant # 03-07-90342.
Pavel Braslavski is especially grateful for the hospitality of the Computer Science Department at the Freie Universit t (FU) Berlin, where part of his contribution to this project was made.
His research at the FU Berlin was supported by the German Academic Exchange Service (DAAD).
