Search Engine Advertising is on the basis of the advertisers  bidding on keywords and driven by the generalized Second Price Auction mechanism [1].
The advertiser creates an advertisement through providing search engine the displayed ads title, description text and URL together with a set of keywords to bid for the advertisement, which are usually related to the product or service it wishes to advertise.
However, it has been difficult for advertisers to precisely identify their requirements on keywords which can introduce high user interests and traffics, only relying on the general traffic statistics on some related keywords.
Moreover, a top advertiser would be more interested in its competitor s concerns and attempts so as trying to gain the advantages over the competitors and boost their own advertisements.
As the main motivation of this paper, the proposed Competitor Analysis is to provide advertiser the competitive analysis tool to automatically analyze and understand the competition relationship among a group of advertisers and the related keyword competitions as well.
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s).
In general search engine, if a query q leads users to two different advertiser s websites wa and wb, then wa and wb are competitors with each other on the query q.
Thus, the search click-through data, which is the log data generated by Web search engine, is a good resource to discover the competitive relations.
Our approach consists of three major steps, which is illustrated in Figure

 extract a number of concept keywords from queries.
The concept keywords have compact and precise meanings and can be considered as the website abstraction.
Hence, each website is represented by a vector of concept keywords.
from the first step.
One partition of the graph consists of the extracted concept keywords and another partition consists of advertisers  websites.
The Markov random walk algorithm [2] is then used to measure the degree of competition according to website proximities in the bipartite graph.
arrange competitors into them according to the results from the Markov random walk algorithm.
Figure 1: The algorithm of competitive analysis consists of three major steps.
The search click-through log we use for the experiments is collected from a commercial search engine Live Search for one month.
Table 1 illustrates the competitive results for two websites  expedia.com  and  shoes.com .
The first task of the competitive analysis is to provide a list of the ranked websites competing against the seed node.
Since the degree of competition for each competitor is recognized, we choose the top 20 competitors displayed.
keywords on which the seed node competes with other websites, and the top 10 keywords are presented in the paper.
It is crucial for an advertiser to identify which websites are most competitive on a certain keyword so that the advertiser can make the accurate strategy to target on the right audience and drag the traffic from its competitors.
Therefore, we arrange the competitors into different keyword categories.
For each keyword category, the websites are also ranked according to the degree of competition on this keyword.
  The competitors of  expedia.com  are plentiful and broad in concept as well including travel agencies, airline companies, hotels, travel insurance companies, etc.
If  expedia.com  would like to launch an ad campaign to promote the hotel service (no.3 in keyword category), the top competitors are  hotels.com ,  disney.go.com  and  tripadvisor.com .
Thus,  expedia.com  should collect their ad information such as ad coverage and bidding so as to gain the advantages over these competitors.
If  expedia.com  would like to attract the traffic from those persons seeking for the last minute flight (no.7 in keyword category), it should pay more attentions to the ads from  lastminutedeals.com ,  lastminutetravel.com  and  smartertravel.com .
 Shoes.com  mainly sells shoes and related products online.
The competitor composition of  shoes.com  is quite interesting with  payless.com  in a dominating position.
The   keyword category varies from general shoes categories such as  women shoes ,  men shoes  and  kid shoes  to brand based categories like  converse shoes ,  simpson shoes ,  adidas shoes  and etc.
If  shoes.com  wants to build an ad campaign targeting to female customers, they really need to look into the top competitors at  women shoes  category, which are totally different from the category of  men shoes .
Keyword substitution is the most direct technique for keyword suggestion.
The methods transforming keyword completely different through the click-through log analysis[3], latent semantic indexing (LSI) [4] and pseudo-relevance feedback [5].
Keyword generation is another important technique which suggests keywords through exploiting the content from web pages.
Turney et al. [6] used keyword candidates to query the search engine, and then use the number of hit documents as an additional feature for keyword generation.
Kelleher [7] used the link information of a web page, thus design a  semantic ratio  feature with to anchor text to extract keyword.
Yih et al. [8] described a supervised approach that uses a number of features such as TF and IDF to learn how to extract keywords from web pages.
Table 1: The competitive analysis results on two input websites.
Top 20 competitors are shown on the left side hand for each input website.
The number in bracket indicates the degree of competition.
Top 10 competing keywords are shown in the middle.
The websites that competing on a keyword are arranged into this keyword, and top 3 competitors are selected.
