Students and professionals asking for additional knowledge are usually pleased with the wide scope of knowledge sources available electronically and wish to  learn on demand  [4].
This implies a high level of student s independence from locations and time schedules, which have been described by other terms like  Open learning  or  Distance learning  previously [2].
However, electronic information sources may eventually turn out to be useless [3] without an editor or moderator.
Therefore many training organizations tend to extend or enhance but not replace classroom training by web based training (WBT).
Then   besides finding skilled multimedia instructors [1] - the integrated administration of the learning program and implementation of a Copyright is held by the author/owner(s).
feedback channel between students and tutors as well as the training organization is critical for the success and of such blended learning concepts.
An integrated administration example is TCmanager, a seminar administration system with integrated eLearning platform implementing SCORMTM
 operational support for the delivery of training and in order to minimize administrative efforts, collect feedback from eLearning programs and therefore make eLearning a profitable business.
For students the first visible result is the integrated training catalogue including both classroom training and WBT offerings.
Fig. 1 Integrated internet catalogue

 Training or test material may be provided anonymously, but authenticated access is needed whenever the information becomes specific to the student, e.g.
in a communication channel between trainer and tutor.
In TCmanager authenticated access may be opened even temporarily for selected students and therefore allows to precisely tailor the access to eLearning material: certain students may get access to the eLearning platform at certain times and will be able to execute just the booked eLearning courses.
In addition to authenticated access for students, TCmanager provides authenticated access for trainers, who may then inspect their time schedules or even deliver tutorial work from all internet access points available in their current environment.
432is supported removal of all over the world and not be influenced by local preferences of regional business responsibles.
For preselection a set of multiple choice tests was created using its online test creation and configuration functionality.
These tests can be executed anonymously by everybody feeling qualified.
The quality of the questions was insured by an elaborate review and translation process, the results of which can be used in the test sequences still at runtime.
On preparation for the test individually by a  personal every candidate consultant  pointing to additional educational offerings.
Nevertheless the proof of a successful test is a prerequisite to register for personal certification.
The most important benefits of the solution are the homogeneous standard, cost efficiency, time constraints, transparency of the process and even ongoing progress.
The process was successfully implemented and is currently operational.
Preselection and comparable qualification is ensured for the candidates entering the costly and time consuming theoretical and practical exams.
