Whether online on the Internet, or offline in brick-and-mortar environments, personalization of services, content and user interactions is seen as key to a superior customer experience.
This requires service providers to build and maintain accurate models of a customer s preferences, interests, background, etc., i.e. a user profile.
However to obtain better insight into customers and build more holistic user profiles it is not sufficient for the service provider to only look at its history and interactions with the customer, but look at  out-of-band  profile the user s interactions or preferences with other services, distributed perhaps across multiple web sites or service touch-points.
For example, consider a retailer who would like to personalize offers/coupons for its customers.
A large portion of the factors affecting a customer's purchase decisions occur outside the scope of the brick-and-mortar store or online shopping website.
The  out-of-band  information in this case, which has a significant impact on what, when and how customers buy, include customers  social/life events, data from online calendars, online shopping lists, customer personal information management systems, social network recommendations etc.
And yet retailers largely only rely on demographic identifiers and past shopping history / point-of-sale data because building this holistic view of a customer is extremely hard given that the sources of this out-of-band cross-organizationally distributed and with differing schemas and semantics hindering aggregation and reuse.
Just as current Web 2.0 mashups allow for the creation of hybrid applications, we argue that user profiles can be significantly enriched information fragments of are diverse, information lists/wish typically Copyright is held by the author/owner(s).
Figure 1: Types of profile information captured
 is interested in, e.g.
throwing a party, or attending a birthday, going on vacation etc.
We used Google Calendar, a popular online personal information/event management system that provides REST-(called style APIs that GData) export calendar information.
An RDF calendar vocabulary adapter was used.
Similarly FOAF is a widely popular RDF format for users to describe themselves, their interests and also their social networks.
We use FOAF as a source since using this data can inform user service interactions with not only general profile information about a user, but also holds the potential for us to infer what a user s interests or preferences are based on those of the people in his social network.
We also used profile information from a user s cell phone.
(This allows for  anonymous personalization  personalization can be offered by services with which the user has no established interaction history, enabled by RUPO which makes meaning of profile data explicit.
Moreover the user can adopt different personas while interacting with different services by changing the profile on his phone).
We also used simple  shopping list  information available from a user s RUPO document.
The source of this is the RSA  intent capture  system we have built, but could also be another online service, such as Amazon wishlists.
The Jena semantic web toolkit from HP Labs was used in this prototype.
We described a framework to enable the creation and management of extensible and expressive user profiles, and use traditionally  out-of-band  data systems to enrich user information models.
This differs from other profile services such as Microsoft Live ID [5] (cannot easily combine with external data sources) or the Liberty Alliance personal profile service [6] (has different goals and does not address profile semantics, capture or distribution).
Other efforts such as Universal Profiling Interoperability [2] (recommendations for data interchange between domains) or the Connected Services Framework [7] are not targeted towards the retail domain, do not contribute to a domain ontology or tie to personal information management systems to enrich user profiles.
Our next steps include making profiles adaptive based on the evolution of profile-linked user-created content over time, and further investigating use of FOAF/RUPO social network information for personalization use cases.
