802.11-based wireless access network has been deployed widely recent years due to its unlicensed spectrum, cheap wireless interfaces, high bandwidth and the inherent convenience of computing.
However, the vulnerabilities for example DOS attack, wiretapping and incursion have gone all along with and threaten the popularization of WLAN.
Rogue Access Point (RAP) is one of the most popular threats [1,2].
The RAP detecting methodologies can be classified into two categories: the Over-the-Air (OTA) and the Over-the-Wire (OTW).
OTW has attracted great research force due to its advantages over OTA.
MAC/IP address filtering and flow characteristics are two common criterions used in RAP detection [1,2,3].
The methodology based on MAC/IP address filtering will be invalid in the scenes of network address transfer and address spoofing.
The flow-based detecting approaches identify the connection categories from the prior possibility distribution of flow characteristics obtained in advance from captured WLAN trace.
Unfortunately, usually it is impossible to get these trace for organizations without WLAN.
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s).
An analytic model of STJ has been deduced from the mechanism of 802.11 MAC DCF and used as the metric to differentiate the link types in this paper.
An algorithm of detecting RAPs is proposed based on the analytic model.
The experiment result on an operated network shows its advantage over the approaches based on ACK-Pair.
OTA-based detection approaches parses SSID and MAC of AP from captured data frames to detect RAPs.
Almost all existed detection instruments provided by vendors used OTA, for example AirDefense, AirMagnet and AirWave.
OTA is generally ineffective because of time-consuming manual scans, signal range and expensive besides MAC/IP address spoofing.
OTW-based detection approaches determine RAPs using MAC/IP or traffic flow characteristics.
Cisco offers some tools to detect RAPs by querying routers or switches for MAC/IP address assignment.
However, it is of no effect on address spoofing and NAT.
The main the flow characteristics-based detection methodologies identify RAPs using binary decision diagram based on the prior probability distribution of the wire and wireless flows from measurement experiments.
The methodologies can be classified into active and passive measurement according the approach of obtaining flow characteristics [1,2,3,4].
TCP Ack-pairs and Inter-packet spacing are two primary properties to detect RAPs.
Ack-pairs based approaches can throw off the disadvantage of MAC/IP based approaches, but they also require some restriction conditions e.g.
the packet size of TCP should be larger than 1000 bytes, the interval of two sequent packets should be less than 0.24ms, and all hosts must implement the mechanism of Delayed ACK.
idea of

 Let s discuss a TCP connection with WLAN destination host H.
The STJ denoted as j is defined as the RTT jitter from the detecting site to H. Obviously, j is composed by jitters in wire (jl) and wireless link (jw).
jw is determined by queuing delay caused by
 increase and different with the characteristic of wire s jitters.
A packet trace about 8GB is captured from the access link of a campus Intranet with 1500 users.
There are 5,121,419 TCP connections from 847 Ethernet and 213,163 TCP connections from 57 WLAN users respectively.
Their STJs are shown as Figure 1.
From Figure 1, the distribution characteristic of STJ in WLAN is evidently distinguished from that of Ethernet access.
Denoted packet i queuing delay on AP and wireless host as qA[i] and qs[i], then nj ][ w (1) nq ][
 nq ][
 ]1     nq [
 nq [
   ]1 = +
 be deduced from the DCF Markov chain model ignoring the effect of cross traffic as formula (2).
without NAT.
Consequently, the performance of detecting the RAP through NAT keeps almost the same as that without NAT.
Table 1.
Detecting Results of STJ and ACK-Pairs (A-P)

 Pkt Avg-T

























 DR: Detecting Ratio, Pkt: Packets Required, Avg-T: Average Detecting Time Figure 1.
STJs of Ethernet and WLAN Access (2) jP (
 + j e == ) t jP ( w t (   j e jP (*)) ) e   0j   e The comparing result of cumulative distribution function (CDF) of STJ from the trace and formula (2) is shown in Figure 2.
Figure 3.
CDF of Wire Access with NAT, Without NAT and WLAN with NAT

 There are three contributions of this paper.
STJ, which can distinct reflect wireless MAC mechanism, is used to classify wire and wireless traffic.
An analytic model of STJ is deduced from the DCF Markov chain model.
A RAP detecting algorithm based on the analytic model is proposed without training trace.
This research is supported by National Science Foundation of China with grant no.
90604015, National Basic Research Program of China 2007CB310702, and France Telecom R&D with grant no.
