The textbook Hypermedia and the Web: An Engineering Approach [15] (coauthored by Wendy Hall, one of the authors of this paper) describes in detail a principled approach to the design, production, and maintenance of large hypermedia applications; a resource which we feel ongoing activity in Web application design [5, 24, 25] demonstrates is still valid (and potentially valuable) in the context of the Web engineering community.
However, in Copyright is held by the author/owner(s).
Skills Demonstrated Recalls previously learned material.
Competence Knowledge Comprehension Grasps the meaning of learned material.
Application Uses learned material in new situations.
Breaks down material into its compo-Analysis nent parts in order to understand its or-ganisational structure.
Put parts together to form a new whole.
Judge the value of material for a given purpose.
Synthesis Evaluation Table 1: Bloom s Taxonomy of educational objectives.
the rapidly evolving  eld of Web research, much of the textbook s background and research-related content (approx.
50% of the material), although perhaps useful for newcomers to the  eld, is now out of date.
To address this problem, we decided to try and bring the textbook up to date by building a  companion website 1 which would extend the coverage of the textbook and demonstrate how more recent work in the community still  ts in with the framework for hypermedia engineering it proposes.
A primary goal of the Hypermedia and the Web textbook, as with many textbooks, is to educate, and material aimed at a wide range of readership pro les, including researchers, practitioners, designers, managers, information experts and students, is covered.
In
 mittee charged with developing a classi cation system that captured the intellectual behaviour important in learning [3].
The resulting hierarchy of intellectual skills involving the acquisition and use of knowledge in the cognitive domain2, generally referred to as Bloom s Taxonomy, categorises cognitive learning objectives ranging from simple recall to the ability to judge and evaluate material (Table 1).
In the context of this paper, Bloom s taxonomy gives us a way of
 intended to function as a supplement to a non-electronic resource such as a textbook.
overlapping domains: cognitive, affective, and psychomotor; we focus here on the cognitive domain.
365describing and critiquing the features that companion websites of fer.
We argue that it is valid to transfer the taxonomy from judging students in the educational domain to judging websites in the computer systems domain because the taxonomy describes observable intellectual behaviour as opposed to abstract beliefs.
Hence, we can reasonably state that, for example, a website providing a list of departmental contact information (telephone, email etc.)
does little more than facilitate a reader s recall, whereas a website listing the most in uential researchers in a particular  eld (with justi cation) could assist the development of a higher level evaluation skill.
Generally speaking, the process of authoring a textbook such as Hypermedia and the Web incorporates each of the intellectual skills listed in the taxonomy, from gathering and reading background material (recall, comprehension) to  tting  the textbook together and deciding what should and should not be included (synthesis, evaluation).
The  success  of a textbook could therefore be considered as dependent on the ability of the authors to effectively communicate their high level understanding of the subject matter in such a way as to facilitate the reader s higher-level learning objectives.
In this respect, we are interested in discovering the authoring and presentation techniques that could be employed to create  successful  companion websites that extend their traditional, non-electronic, counterparts.
We therefore carried out a review of a number of existing companion websites in order to identify some of these techniques.
The aim of the review was to identify the techniques used to extend the textbook and present online material.
We then related these techniques to the intellectual skills delineated by Bloom s taxonomy, in order to evaluate the learning support provided by each technique.
In total, 25 companion websites from a number of different domains were reviewed; see Appendix A3.
To better facilitate comparison of the websites, we have categorised the features of the 25 companion websites into four main areas: text, hypertext, student resources, and instructor resources.
Although more than half of the reviewed sites reproduce some or all of the textbook content in electronic form, either as HTML pages or PS/PDF  les4, four of the sites provide an extended or updated online text (DrugsBrain, KimBiology, ResStrateg, WebPub-lish).
InsAnatomy provides extended material in the form of hyperlinked anatomy diagrams entirely separate from the original textbook content (an anatomical dictionary).
Almost all of the sites use the hierarchical structure of the textbook as a (hypertextual) presentation device, with each page of the website mapped to a chapter, section, or article/lecture in the case of those textbooks representing a collection of works by different authors.
Exceptions are InsAnatomy and KimBiology.
InsAnatomy s nodes are anatomy diagrams; John Kimball, the author of KimBiology, reveals his approach in the introduction to his
 resources such as the list of Online Science and Maths Textbooks http://spot.colorado.edu/ dubin/bookmarks/b/ 1240.html
 lished by, or under the control of, the textbook authors, e.g.
Fam-Practic, ElemsStyle, StatsSqOne companion website, which led him to break down the linear textbook content into a number of concise  topics  (one per Web page): It has always seemed to me that the many parts that make up the subject of biology are related to each other more like the nodes of a web than as a linear collection of independent topics.
So I believe that the power of hypertext will be better suited to learning about biology than is the linear structure of a printed textbook.
Over half of the companion websites use a linked table of contents to allow readers quick access to the material.
In the majority of cases, the table of contents is reproduced directly from the textbook, and linked to each node of the site (e.g.
AmericGeog); in the cases where the textbook content is not reproduced, the table of contents serves as a means of accessing other resources related to each part of the textbook (e.g.
Geosystems, PowerTools).
Again InsAnatomy and KimBiology are the exceptions: InsAnatomy uses a graphical table of contents based on the human body (e.g.
head !
organs !
ear !
drum); KimBiology lists topic pages by category (e.g.
Animals, Behaviour, Biochemistry).
Several sites also provide a site-speci c search engine as a further means of  nding relevant material (e.g.
BrainWorks, MedMicrobi).
In terms of hypertext linking features, four types of linking practice were identi ed: tour links (move to next/previous node in a linear sequence   cf.
Navigation links [11]), glossary links (subject-speci c terms in the material linked to de nitions   cf.
Expansion links [11]), cross-reference links (related ideas in the material tied together with associative [6, 18] links   cf.
Resource links [11]), and external links (links to related material on other websites   cf.
Resource links [11]).
All sites which demonstrated tour linking mirrored the linear sequence of the textbook: readers can follow links to the next/previous chapter or section.
KimBiology, the only site which demonstrates a cross-reference linking strategy, not only makes concrete nonlinear relationships between the many different topics, but also (in the majority of topics) explicitly suggests that readers should carefully compare the current topic with several other (linked) topics.
Some companion websites provide a single list of external links to accompany the entire textbook (e.g.
EricMeyCss), some present external links in the context of nodes (e.g.
WebPublish); in either case, the external links may be annotated (e.g.
with indications of the target audience of the linked material - BrainWorks).
Less than half of the companion websites provide resources for students, peripheral to the textual content, in the form of exercises, projects, or quizzes.
Other resources provided include an online answer checker (LightMattr), facilities for students to email their answers to instructors (PowerTools, Geosystems), and study guides/workbooks (ResStrateg, WebPublish).
In half of the above cases, the student resources were accompanied by syllabi to assist instructors teaching courses related to or based around the textbook.
Other instructor resources include a syllabus manager (Geosystems), instructor manuals (PowerTools, LightMattr), and example lecture slides (MolBiology).
It is interesting to note that the Geosystems companion website is just one of a number of sites with similar style and content accompanying textbooks by the Prentice-Hall group of publishers, indicating that a  framework  for building companion websites is available for authors to  ll  with supplementary material, the pop-
BasCon M ath BrainThink Brain W orks Com pAnalys DrugsBrain ElemsStyle Eric M eyCss Fam Practic Geosystems InfoTheory InsAnatom y JavaScrM ag Text Full Text Extended Hypertext Node ToC Search Tour Glossary Cross-ref External Student Exercises Other Instructor Syllabi Other (cid:15) (cid:1) chap (cid:15) (cid:1) (cid:15) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:15) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:15) (cid:1) (cid:14) (cid:1) (cid:15) (cid:1) (cid:15) (cid:15) (cid:15) (cid:1) chap lect chap chap chap (cid:15) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:15) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:15) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:15) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:15) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:15) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:15) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:15) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:15) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:15) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:15) (cid:1) (cid:15) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:15) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) sect chap (cid:15) (cid:1) (cid:15) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:15) (cid:1) (cid:15) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:15) (cid:15) (cid:15) (cid:1) JavaScrW w w Kim Biology LightM attr M ed Microbi M olBiology PowerTools ResStrateg StatsSqOne The WikiW ay ThinkJava (cid:15) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:15) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:15) diag (cid:15) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:15) (cid:15) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:15) (cid:15) (cid:1) (cid:1) W ebPublish W ordFreque Text Full Text Extended Hypertext Node ToC Search Tour Glossary Cross-ref External Student Exercises Other Instructor Syllabi Other (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:15) (cid:15) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:15) (cid:15) topic (cid:15) (cid:15) (cid:1) (cid:15) (cid:15) (cid:15) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:15) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:15) (cid:1) (cid:15) (cid:15) (cid:15) (cid:15) (cid:15) (cid:15) (cid:1) art (cid:15) (cid:15) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:15) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:15) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:15) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:15) (cid:15) (cid:15) (cid:1) (cid:15) (cid:15) (cid:15) (cid:15) (cid:1) chap chap (cid:15) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:15) (cid:1) (cid:15) (cid:15) (cid:1) (cid:15) (cid:1) (cid:15) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:14) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:15) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:15) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:15) (cid:1) sect (cid:15) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:15) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:15) (cid:15) chap (cid:15) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:15) (cid:1) (cid:15) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:15) (cid:1) (cid:15) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:15) (cid:14) (cid:1) Feature implemented.
Partial implementation of feature (e.g.
only part of textbook material reproduced).
Feature not implemented.
Table 2: Summary of reviewed companion websites ulated site then being hosted by the publisher5.
Students register their pro le (including email addresses of up to 3 instructors), and can subsequently submit answers to chosen instructors from any Prentice-Hall companion website.
The introduction to the Geosys-tems site hints at some of the possibilities of this  framework  approach for authors with little Web authoring experience to produce resources which help readers both review the content of the textbook and expand upon it: The Geosystems Companion Website was designed around the chapter structure found in the new fourth edition of this popular text...To start your journey through this site, select a chapter using the drop-down list below, then click  Begin.  You ll  nd that each chapter contains a variety of different types of review questions
 www.prenhall.com/pubguide/index.html   true or false and  ll in the blank questions will test your knowledge of the subject matter, while labelling, essay, and critical thinking modules will help you put together what you ve learned [...] Each chapter also contains carefully selected and annotated Web destinations for further exploration of the topic at hand, along with a Net Search feature that helps you formulate your own customized Web searches.
Table 2 summarises the features of each companion website.
Taxonomy Those companion websites which reproduce the textbook content, and/or provide devices such as a linked table of contents into the material, glossary links, or a search engine could be considered to assist the reader s recall and comprehension by offering fast access to the material (although consider a linked table of con-
tents/search engine in comparison to a textbook index as a recall device).
However, the review also identi ed at least four authoring and presentation techniques which could facilitate the reader s progression to the higher-level educational objectives:
 sions of parts of the textbook which are then published on the companion website; more recent work and ideas are synthesised and evaluated into an extended online text (e.g.
DrugsBrain, ResStrateg).
In terms of the reader s learning objectives, this extended work functions in the same way as the textbook, with the  success  of the companion website depending on the ability of the author to communicate their understanding of the topic in the context of the newer material.
by linking to them.
The authors provide external links to other relevant online resources (e.g.
EricMeyCss).
Presenting these links in conjunction with a particular topic or part of the book (WebPublish, KimBiology) or annotating the links with a short description of the target resource (BrainWorks) may better enable readers to analyse the linked material in conjunction with the textbook, but the authors themselves do not synthesise the new material into a coherent whole and so therefore this technique may be less effective than (1).
tional structure of the material.
The authors use associative links to make explicit the connections between related topics that could not otherwise be easily expressed in the traditional (non-electronic) textbook medium (KimBiology).
This may be more effective than (2) if newer material is synthesised into the hypertext structure, but requires the authors to construct a nonlinear information structure.
learning achievements or help instructors assess their students.
The authors produce a series of exercises, quizzes, or projects designed to assist readers in self-assessment.
Some textbooks may already contain such exercises; observed techniques which go beyond the non-electronic textbook medium include an online answer checker (LightMattr) and automated facilities for student readers to email their answers to their instructor (e.g.
Geosystems).
Other student resources, such as study guides (ResStrateg, WebPublish), may also help readers focus on the analysis, synthesis, and evaluation of key topics (in particular Geosystem s essay and critical thinking exercises).
By the same token, instructor resources such as sample syllabi (Geosystems) and manuals (LightMattr, Power-tools) may assist instructors in guiding their students through the spectrum of learning objectives.
Admittedly the  rst and fourth techniques do not rely on the Web publication medium - revised editions of textbooks and companion  teaching packs  have been the norm since long before the Web (indeed, many textbooks already include exercises for readers); it is only with the widespread adoption of the Web that such revisions and resources can be published quickly and (potentially) reach a wider audience (although copyright restrictions or  commercial  motivations may limit the adoption of this distribution method6).
Even so, each of the four techniques are susceptible to problems with extensibility related to authoring effort.
If the author adopts technique 1 or 2, the text/links must be revised whenever relevant new material is published in order to keep up to date.
Similarly, creating a nonlinear information structure (technique 3) which incorporates this new material may also be problematic [17].
Drugs-Brain contains direct evidence of this problem in its explanatory text:  the links to the glossary and bibliography were still more complex because each of the several hundred entries had to be iden-ti ed as a target so the text could be linked to it .
Exercises and assessments (technique 4) also need to take new material into consideration, and may need to be individually created for each type of reader (recall the diverse target readership for Hypermedia and the Web outlined in Section 2) and knowledge level.
Although frameworks such as that provided by Prentice-Hall (e.g.
Geosystems) may reduce the effort of actual HTML programming, the fact remains that each of these essentially  static  techniques must be handcrafted and continually updated by the authors.
Brain:  As an example of how a reverse spin can be put on almost anything, we were approached by a textbook editor last week, via email, to inquire if we wanted to publish this [extended, online] book in hard-copy .
media Engineering  ontology.
One of the visions of the Semantic Web [2] is the emergence of a  services architecture  [16] advertising the services of  trillions of small specialised reasoning services  [8] operating across a knowledge-enriched Web.
Why do these visions make us keen to investigate the Semantic Web as a technology for building companion websites?
We reason that in both the construction of a hypertext which exposes the underlying organisational structure of the textbook (and related) material, and the formulation of assessment exercises for students, the authors hold implicit knowledge about the nodes they are creating.
For example, the topic to which a particular node refers and the relationships between that topic and others; the target audience of an assessment exercise, including the required intellectual skills and prerequisite knowledge.
We envisage this information modelled by an ontology, acquired from the author, and made available to machine-based Semantic Web services whose reasoning over a number of distributed companion websites provides the reader with an integrated, hypertextual view of the online material which takes into consideration their background and knowledge levels.
Technology A number of tools for building the Semantic Web have recently been put forward, and can be related to Bloom s taxonomy.
COHSE [1] uses a ontology of the linguistic terms in the domain of interest (e.g.
a thesaurus modelling the relationships between different terms) to add links to Web pages from that domain.
Using a semantic model of the terms used in a document, the system is able to make decisions about which links to present to the user, such as suggesting links to resources describing a broader concept in the absence of available resources describing the spe-ci c term appearing in the document.
schraefel [22] argues that the weakness of COHSE (and similar systems such as MagPie [7] and CREAM [12]) is that the system operates at the lowest levels of Bloom s taxonomy: identifying concepts in a document and giving the reader access to them merely helps the reader recall facts from the knowledge base.
OntoPortal [19] introduced the notion of  ontological hypertext , in which the underlying domain ontology was exposed to the user as an orientation device in order to provide a principled and structured approach to navigating the interconnected knowledge held by the portal.
Such an approach to knowledge presentation may bet-Figure 3: Ontology instances, showing  provider  concept (dotted lines show instances).
ter assist the development of higher level intellectual skills, such as comprehension (through the presentation of related knowledge in context), and analysis (through the revealing of the underlying organisational structure).
ESKIMO [14] adopted a similar portal-based approach, but in addition used bibliometric-based inferenc-ing services to derive additional facts from the knowledge base (e.g.
allowing the user to discover who are the experts in Hypertext?
).
ScholOnto [23] provided a framework for a community to construct a network of claims describing their contributions, and the contributions of others, using an ontology of rhetorical relations.
Reasoning services which derive trends and patterns from these claims may better re ect the  real-world  opinion, being grounded in human-authored beliefs.
We have built a companion website for the Hypermedia and the Web textbook which leverages, using Semantic Web technologies, some of the techniques we identi ed in Section 3.5 for building  successful  companion websites.
We also discuss a practical model for future developments of our companion website in the context of a thriving e-commerce, e-publishing, Semantic Web services architecture.
The  rst step was to model the concepts in the textbook.
Following John Kimball s (KimBiology) lead, we broke the linear textbook down into a number of concise topics   however, rather than mapping these topics directly to HTML web pages, we used them to form the concepts in a  Hypermedia Engineering  ontology modelled using Prot eg e7 [20].
By carefully reading the text, we distilled the key relationships between the identi ed concepts, and captured them in our ontology (Figure 1).
We were also keen to capture the different  content types  of knowledge unit available in the textbook (e.g.
a concept has at least one description, summary, example, or illustration associated with it) and readership pro les (e.g.
a concept description/summary etc.
may be written with a practitioner, student, or instructor in mind) in our ontology (Figure 2).
We also introduced the notion of Providers, with each knowledge unit being  provided by  a Provider instance (Figure 3).
To bootstrap the system, we have included a number of knowledge units from three different providers: the Hy-
and implementation, we were later frustrated by the lack of support for multiple instancing (Figure 3).
Parameter Result Concept Tour Provider Info Concept instance URI Returns data describing given concept, e.g.
title, description, provider URI.
Nav Concept instance URI Returns URIs of related concept instances as modelled by the ontology to facilitate ontological hypertext.
Info Tour instance URI Nav Concept instance URI Returns data describing given tour, e.g.
theme, steps (ordered list of CONTENT instance URIs   see Figure 2), provider URI.
Finds the tour which the given concept appears in and derives contextual data to assist user navigation of that tour (URI of next/previous steps on tour, and URI of parent tour if current tour is a subtour).
Provider instance URI Returns data describing given provider, e.g.
name, description, Web URL.
Info Nav Concept instance URI Returns URIs of concept instances associated with different providers describing the given concept, to facilitate integrated exploration of several knowledge sources.
Table 3: Services operating over the 3store database.
permedia and the Web textbook itself, the HyperBank case study from the textbook, and material from the more recent WebML Web engineering initiative8.
In order to provide a basic means of navigating through the site, a guided path was created through each provider s material, independent of the ontological relationships between concepts [9] (Tour concept in Figure 2).
Figure 4 illustrates the current architecture of the Hypermedia and the Web companion website.
Our ontology (exported from Prot eg e to RDF Schema) and instances (exported to RDF) are stored and accessed through the 3store RDF storage and query engine [13], a robust and scalable knowledge base for the Semantic Web9.
User interaction currently takes place via the services of a HyperBook  agent 10, which enlists a number of simple services operating over the 3store database (Table 3) in order to construct a Web document based on the user request (Figure 5).
As well as rendering the content of the current topic, the page also orients the reader within the guided tour, and provides links to related topics, as captured by the ontology.
The reader also has the option of switching the  viewpoint  of the topic to that of a different provider (the provider of the currently displayed topic is always visible at the top of the page).
Figure 4: Architecture of Hypermedia and the Web companion website.
8http://www.webml.org 9http://www.aktors.org/technologies/3store/
 puter program which constructs information presentations at the request of the user; we hope to move towards agent-based Semantic Web services [10].
Web Scenario Figure 6 illustrates how our vision of the future of companion websites in the Semantic Web leverages the advantages of a services architecture:  loosely-coupled distributed systems which adapt to ad-hoc changes by the use of service descriptions that enable opportunistic service discovery  [10].
Providers (e.g.
textbook authors, textbook publishers) publish semantically enriched companion website content in distributed knowledge bases (C).
As in the case of Geosystems, the textbook publisher may provide a publishing platform to assist authors of their textbooks.
A number of  agent-based services  [10] (A) register with a discovery service (B) the types of service they offer to particular user stereotypes [21].
When a user visits a particular companion website (in the traditional way, by entering a URL or following a link), and is assigned an initial stereotype, the available services for that stereotype and pro le are advertised.
The user s pro le information may be retrieved from a user pro le knowledge base if the user has previously registered.
In this example, the user is a Year 2 Student, and therefore is offered the services of two agents: (cid:15) The Revision Notes agent dynamically constructs revision exercises based on the user s selected topic, and their background knowledge) (cid:15) The HyperBook agent is an extension of the agent described in the previous section, which takes into consideration the background knowledge of the user when generating pages for the companion website and uses a variety of  adaptive hypertext  techniques [4] to present the most appropriate information.
panion website  view  Acting on behalf of the user, the chosen agent negotiates with a number of Semantic Web services [16] (D) operating over the
 services (labelled).
provider knowledge bases   advertised through a discovery service (E)   in order to retrieve the most valuable information for the user s current requirements.
In the example in Figure 6, the user has enlisted the services of the Revision Notes agent to construct a series of questions about Design in Hypermedia Engineering, to help revise for an upcoming test on a course based on the Hypermedia and the Web textbook.
The Revision Notes agent requests knowledge units created for Year 2 Students to self-assess their knowledge of Design and related concepts (according to the ontological relationships) from the Questions service (a service specialising in providing exercises, quizzes and other assessments).
The agent may negotiate with multiple, rival, Questions services for this information, e.g.
trading coverage for questions on key topics only (the student has left revision to the last minute!
), or negotiating provider fees   buying in bulk from Provider A may get more questions for less, but is Provider B (who does not offer bulk buy options) more relevant to the student (appearing as it does in the list of core texts for the course)?
The Revision Notes agent working on behalf of an Instructor who wishes to compile a test on Design operates in a similar way, but negotiates for questions intended to help instructors assess student knowledge within the  trust  layer of the Semantic Web [2] to ensure that the  instructor  isn t actually an enterprising student trying to  nd the answers to the upcoming test!
As another example, the Lecture Slides agent, acting on behalf of an Instructor wishing to compile a series of slides for a half-hour lecture on Hypermedia in the context of Hypermedia Engineering to be given to Year 1 Students, favours any content that can be obtained on related topics from Illustration services, but falls back on the Summary services, or even (as a last resort) Description services (possibly further enlisting a Summarisation service to reduce the information to a more manageable size given the constraints of the target presentation format), in order to provide coverage of the key topics.
This paper has reported the latest efforts of a project to design and build a companion website which helps keep the textbook Hypermedia and the Web: An Engineering Approach (published in
 Engineering  eld.
This paper has two main contributions.
First we have reviewed 25 companion websites from a variety of different domains and enumerated the authoring and presentation techniques which both extend the coverage of the text and help to facilitate readers  higher-level learning objectives (as delineated by Bloom s taxonomy).
The review identi ed four such techniques:

 by linking to them.
tional structure of the material.
learning achievements or help instructors assess their students.
We argued that these techniques offer little in the way of extensi-bility; whenever new material is published, the author must update the essentially  static  content.
The second contribution is therefore
 the proposal that the Semantic Web technologies may help overcome, or at least reduce, the effects of these weaknesses.
Our current companion website implementation demonstrates how material from a number of different providers can be dynamically synthesised with material from the Hypermedia and the Web textbook by a (human-programmed) HyperBook agent, thereby  extending  the textbook to cover newer work.
In this implementation, the textbook authors need only create knowledge units describing the new work (as opposed to synthesising the new material manually).
The HyperBook agent also renders the underlying structure of the material as ontological hypertext, facilitating the user s analysis of the subject area.
In the future we hope that agent-based Semantic Web services will dynamically construct other resources as part of the services offered by our companion website, for example negotiating with commerce-based agents to build a cost-effective list of revision notes for a student or a comprehensive syllabus for a course instructor.
This work is partly funded by the EPSRC s Advanced Knowledge Technologies IRC (GR/N15764/01) in the UK.
