Publishing Museum Collections on the Semantic Web

– The MuseumFinland Portal

Eero Hyv¨onen, Miikka Junnila, Suvi Kettula, Eetu M¨akel¨a,

Samppa Saarela, Mirva Salminen, Ahti Syreeni, Arttu Valo, and Kim Viljanen

Helsinki Institute for Information Technology (HIIT), University of Helsinki

P.O. Box 26, 00014 UNIVERSITY OF HELSINKI, FINLAND

http://www.cs.helsinki.ﬁ/group/seco/

ﬁrstname.lastname@cs.helsinki.ﬁ

ABSTRACT
Museum collections contain large amounts of data and se-
mantically rich, mutually interrelated metadata in hetero-
geneous databases. The publication of museum collections
on the web is therefore a very promising application do-
main for semantic web techniques. We present a semantic
web portal called \MuseumFinland | Finnish Museums
on the Semantic Web"1 [3] that contains some 4,000 cultural
artifacts from the collections of three museums using three
di(cid:11)erent database schemas and database systems. The sys-
tem is based on seven RDF(S) ontologies consisting of some
10,000 classes and individuals.
Categories and Subject Descriptors: H.3.6 Information
Systems: Online Information Services
General Terms: Design
Keywords: Semantic Web, ontology, content publishing

1. THE GOALS

The goals of developing the system were: 1) Provide the
public a global view to the heterogeneous collections in Fin-
land. 2) Provide the end-user with a content-based search-
engine for (cid:12)nding objects of interest, and a semantic recom-
mendation system for browsing the collections. 3) Create for
the museums a national publication channel for publishing
contents on the Semantic Web. In this paper, these goals
and solutions developed in our work are summarized.

2. GLOBAL VIEW OF COLLECTIONS

The heterogeneity of museum collection databases cre-
ates a severe obstacle to information retrieval. The tradi-
tional solution to this problem is to use multi-search2. Here
the query is send to the local museum database systems,
answered there locally, and the results are then appended
into the global answer (hit list) by the portal. In contrast,
MuseumFinland solves the problem by creating a dynamic
seamless space of web pages depicting collection objects.
For example, (cid:12)gure 1 shows the web page of a dista(cid:11), a

1http://museosuomi.cs.helsinki.(cid:12)
2Artefacts Canada, http://www.chin.gc.ca/, Australian
Museums and Galleries Online, http://www.amol.org.au/,
etc.

Copyright is held by the author/owner(s).
WWW2004, May 17–22, 2004, New York, New York, USA.
ACM 1-58113-912-8/04/0005.

part used in a spinning wheel. The metadata is seen in
the middle and links to other object pages on the right.
The web space can 1) be searched by a semantic search-
engine and 2) be browsed using the links on the right. The
multi-search paradigm cannot facilitate such services based
on global inter-collection associations between objects.

3. VIEW-BASED SEARCH ENGINE

The semantic search engine is a new server-based ver-
sion of Ontogator3 [4]. It is based on the multi-facet search
paradigm [6, 2]. The idea is to organize the concepts and
individuals of the underlying knowledge base into orthogo-
nal category taxonomies called views. Views are used ex-
tensively in the user interface in helping the user to formu-
late the queries. The user can express the query easily in
the right terminology by selecting (sub)categories from the
views. For example, by selecting \carpet" from an artifact
type taxonomy and \silk" from a material taxonomy, silk
carpets are found.

There are nine view hierarchies in use grouped under the
four headings of \Artifact Characteristics" (object type and
object material views), \Artifact Creation" (manufacturer,
manufacturing time, and manufacturing location views), \Us-
age" (user, place of usage, and usage event views), and \Col-
lections" (museum collection view). The view hierarchies are
projected from the underlying seven ontologies used in anno-
tating the collection data. The projection is based on logical
predicates that de(cid:12)ne how the hierarchy is formed. For ex-
ample, in the object type view the relations rdfs:subClassOf
and rdf:type are used, while in the manufacturing location
and place of usage views the part-of relation is used. More
complex projection rules are needed, e.g., for associating ob-
jects with the usage event view. SWI-Prolog4 with its RDF
parser is used for creating the projections.

Finding relevant categories becomes a search problem of
its own when dealing with thousands of categories. To help
the user, Ontogator also contains a search engine for (cid:12)nding
view categories.

4.

SEMANTIC RECOMMENDATIONS

A major goal of the MuseumFinland is to reveal the rich
semantic linkage connecting the collection objects with each

3Ontogator
http://www.hpl.hp.com/semweb/jena.htm.
4http://www.swi-prolog.org

is written

Java

in

and

Jena

2.0,

418Figure 2: Data transformations in MuseumFinland.

and RDF annotations, and Prot(cid:19)eg(cid:19)e-20006 is used for manual
editing.

6. DISCUSSION

MuseumFinland is an application of the idea of seman-
tic portals to solving interoperability problems of museum
collection databases when publishing their content on the
Semantic Web. The novelty of the view-based search engine
of MuseumFinland with respect to other view-based sys-
tems [6, 2] lies in its capability of using RDF(S) ontologies
as the basis of search [4]. The idea of semantic recommen-
dations is related to Topic Maps, Open Hypermedia [1], and
the HyperMuseum [7].
Acknowledgments
Our work is funded mainly by the National Technology Agency
Tekes, Nokia, TietoEnator, the Espoo City Museum, the
Foundation of the Helsinki University Museum, the National
Board of Antiquities, and the Antikvaria Group consisting
of some 20 Finnish museums.

7. REFERENCES
[1] C. Goble, S. Bechhofer, L. Carr, D. De Roure, and W. Hall.

Conceptual open hypermedia = the semantic web? In
Proceedings of the WWW2001, Semantic Web Workshop,
Hongkong, 2001.

[2] M. Hearst, A. Elliott, J. English, R. Sinha, K. Swearingen, and

K.-P. Lee. Finding the (cid:13)ow in web site search. CACM,
45(9):42{49, 2002.

[3] E. Hyv(cid:127)onen, M. Junnila, S. Kettula, , E. M(cid:127)akel(cid:127)a, S. Saarela,

M. Salminen, A. Syreeni, A. Valo, and K. Viljanen.
MuseumFinland|Finnish Museums on the Semantic Web.
User’s perspective. In Proceedings of Museums and the Web
2004 (MW2004), Arlington, Virginia, USA, 2004.

[4] E. Hyv(cid:127)onen, S. Saarela, and K. Viljanen. Ontogator:

combining view- and ontology-based search with semantic
browsing. In Proceedings of the XML Finland 2003
conference. Kuopio, Finland, 2003.

[5] E. Hyv(cid:127)onen, M. Salminen, S. Kettula, and M. Junnila. A

content creation process for the semantic web. In Proceeding of
OntoLex 2004: Ontologies and Lexical Resources in
Distributed Environments, Lisbon, Portugal, 2004
(forthcoming).

[6] A. S. Pollitt. The key role of classi(cid:12)cation and indexing in

view-based searching. Technical report, University of
Hudders(cid:12)eld, UK, 1998.
http://www.i(cid:13)a.org/IV/i(cid:13)a63/63polst.pdf.

[7] P. Stuer, R. Meersman, and S. De Bruyne. The HyperMuseum

theme generator system: Ontology-based internet support for
active use of digital museum data for teaching and
presentations. In Museums and the Web 2001: Selected
Papers. Archieves & Museum Informatics, 2001.

Figure 1: A collection object web page.

other. The linkage is shown to the end-user as hypertext
links. The links are de(cid:12)ned declaratively in terms of Prolog
predicates. Each predicate de(cid:12)nes a semantic association
and gives it a label as an explanatory name for the link.

For example, in (cid:12)gure 1 the semantic links on the right
point to to objects used at the \same location" (categorized
according to the name of the common location), to objects
related to \similar events" (e.g., objects used in spinning,
and decorative objects, because dista(cid:11)s are usually beau-
tifully decorated), to objects manufactured at the \same
time", and so on. Since a decoratively carved dista(cid:11) used
to be a typical wedding gift in Finland, it is also possible
to recommend links to other objects used as wedding gifts,
such as wedding rings.

The semantic recommendation system is implemented as
a logic server called Ontodella based on the SWI-Prolog
HTTP server version. The MuseumFinland system itself is
a Cocoon-based server5 that communicates with Ontogator
and Ontodella servers with XML/RDF messages.

5. CONTENT PUBLICATION PROCESS

A practical goal of our work is to design a process for
Finnish museums to publish their collections on the Seman-
tic Web. In our process scheme [5], the museum (cid:12)rst trans-
forms its collection data into XML (cf. (cid:12)gure 2). Each col-
lection object is represented as an XML card that describes
the object in terms of 22 properties whose values are strings
and numbers read from the underlying database. The XML
Schema used is agreed upon the participating museums and
guarantees syntactic interoperability of the collections.

Next, each XML Card is transformed into an RDF card
with similar RDF properties, but where up to 16 string
values are transformed into the URIs of the corresponding
classes and individuals in the ontologies. This transforma-
tion is based on a set of term cards that map terms with
ontology resources. MuseumFinland provides the muse-
ums with 1) the RDF(S) ontologies, 2) a set of term cards.
The museums can adapt their terminological conventions to
the portal by creating new term cards of their own. Two
special tools has been developed for creating terminologies

5http://cocoon.apache.org

6http://protege.stanford.edu/

419
