





Lorrie Faith Cranor

Carnegie Mellon University

Pittsburgh, PA, USA
lorrie@cs.cmu.edu

Keynote Talk

Towards Usable Web Privacy and Security

Abstract
Internet users now rely on a whole arsenal of tools to protect their security and privacy. Experts
recommend  that  computer  users  install  personal  firewalls,  anti-virus  software,  spyware  blockers,
spam filters, cookie managers, and a variety of other tools to keep themselves safe. Users are told to
pick hard-to-guess passwords, use a different password at every Web site, and not to write any of
their passwords down. They are told to read privacy policies before providing personal information
to Web sites, look for lock icons before typing in a credit card number, refrain from opening email
attachments from people they don’t know, and even to think twice about opening email attachments
from people they do know. With so many do’s and don’ts, it is not surprising that much of this
advice is ignored. In this talk I will highlight usability problems that make it difficult for people to
protect  their  privacy  and  security  on  the  Web,  and  I  will  discuss  a  number  of  approaches  to
addressing these problems.
Bio
Lorrie  Faith  Cranor  is  an  associate  research  professor  in  the  School  of  Computer  Science  at
Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. She is a faculty member in the Institute
for  Software  Research  International  and  in  the  Engineering  and  Public  Policy  department,  and
director  of  the  CMU  Usable  Privacy  and  Security  Laboratory  (CUPS).  She  came  to  CMU  in
December 2003 after seven years at AT&T Labs-Research. Dr. Cranor’s research has focused on a
variety of areas where technology and policy issues interact, including online privacy, electronic
voting, and spam. She is chair of the Platform for Privacy Preferences Project (P3P) Specification
Working Group at the World Wide Web Consortium and author of the book Web Privacy with P3P
(O'Reilly  2002).  In  2003  she  was  named  one  of  the  top  100  innovators  35  or  younger  by
Technology Review magazine.





Copyright is held by the author/owner(s).
WWW 2005, May 10-14, 2005, Chiba, Japan.
ACM 1-59593-046-9/05/0005.

352
