[1] Dcmi education working group.
[2] Dublin core metadata initiative.
[3] Gateway to educational materials.
[4] Ieee learning technology standards committee.
[5] Resource description framework (rdf) model and syntax

speci(cid:2)cation, Feb 1999.

[6] J. Dron. Achieving Self-organisation in Network-based

Learning Environments. PhD thesis, 2002.

[7] E. Duval, W. Hodgins, S. Sutton, and S. L. Weibel. Metadata
principles and practicalities. D-Lib Magazine, 8(4), Apr 2002.
[8] M. Nilsson, M. Palmr, and A. Naeve. Semantic web metadata

for e-learning - some architectural guidelines. W3C 2002
conference, 2002.

we decided to adopt the Dublin Core (DC) metadata set because
it appeared to be the most widely recognized metadata standard
for online resources as well as the de facto standard element set
for the Resource Description Framework (RDF) [5]. At that time,
the 15 elements and quali(cid:2)ers in the DC provided a generalized
framework for describing resources [2]. Since we recognized that
DC was general in scope and would not provide suf(cid:2)cient detail on
which to develop our application, we chose to leverage DC’s mod-
ularity and extensibility that allows re(cid:2)ned metadata to be added
within the DC framework.

Following the recommendations of Duval et al., we began the
process of developing our Education Reform Metadata Framework
(hereafter referred to as EdRef) by selecting relevant elements from
existing standards [7]. To DC’s 15 basic elements and quali(cid:2)ers
we added the two DC education (DC-Ed) elements (cid:147)Audience(cid:148)
and (cid:147)Standard(cid:148) [1]. We added elements and control vocabularies
selected from the Gateway to Educational Materials (GEM) and
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Learning Objects
Metadata (IEEE LOM) [3] [4]. For example, our control vocabu-
lary for the element (cid:147)Resource Type(cid:148) includes control vocabularies
from GEM, IEEE LOM, and DC. Similarly, under (cid:147)Audience(cid:148) from
DC-Ed, we included the quali(cid:2)er (cid:147)Typical Age Range(cid:148) as derived
from IEEE LOM. We added our own vocabulary to the ontology
only if we could not locate any existing metadata to meet commu-
nity needs.

Because we worked with communities from specialty areas of
education we postulated that for each, highly speci(cid:2)c metadata
would be required to describe resources and organize collections
according to their conceptual frameworks. We allowed for this
speci(cid:2)city through the use of a quali(cid:2)ers and control vocabular-
ies. For example, we added control vocabulary under the DC-Ed
quali(cid:2)er for (cid:147)Audience(cid:148). We termed this control vocabulary (cid:147)Ex-
pertise Values(cid:148) because it allows organizations to present resources
appropriate to the experience and knowledge of the learner.

A central task in building our metadata framework - one that
is perpetually under development - is the generation of a list of
new subject headings, which serve as control vocabularies for the
(cid:147)Subject and Keyword(cid:148) elements. This task was necessary because
neither Dewey nor Library of Congress headings offered a compre-
hensive vocabulary pertaining to the content of the organizations
with whom we worked.

Technical assistance providers tend to need, and thus borrow,
terms from a variety of (cid:2)elds including systems theory, organiza-
tional development, politics, (cid:2)nance, cognitive psychology, and eq-
uity. Our subject headings needed to combine, span, and integrate
these (cid:2)elds of knowledge to create a comprehensive framework.
We also had to develop new subject headings for another reason -
the vocabularies for technical assistance need to address concepts
and terms understood and used not only by researchers but also by
practitioners and learners.
It was important to organize the new
subject headings we developed according to the most credible and
widely recognized conceptual framework or set of standards. This
approach offered the advantage that content could be organized ac-
cording to issues of widespread concern to the communities we
worked with. Our hope was that this better enables technical re-
source providers, (or funding agencies, policymakers, professional
developers) to assess and target resources and respond to practi-
tioners’ needs.

Subject headings were constructed by participating communities
with specialized expertise in each topic area. Over time, we used
an increasingly limited subset of the metadata. Organizations were
interested in adding only the metadata they needed to meet the im-
mediate demands of the learners they supported. We found that

411
