[1] Hirning,  A.,  From  Traditional  Classroom  Training  to  E-
Learning  And  Back:  Education  For  Real  Multimedia
Instructors,  in  “Collaboration  and  Cooperation”,  Online
Educa  Berlin,  8th  International  Conference  on  Technology
Supported Learning & Training, ICWE GmbH, Berlin 2002

[2] Rumble,  G,.  ‘Open  learning’,  ‘distance  learning’,  and  the

misuse of language, Open Learning (June 1989), 28-36

[3] Stoll,  C.  Silicon  Snake  Oil.  Second  Thoughts  on  the

Information Highway, New York, Doubleday 1995

[4] Trondsen, E. & Vickery, K. Learning On Demand, The next
1996

frontier
http://www.sric-bi.com/BIP/Rsums/RS840.shtml

competitive

advantage.

building

in

















Fig.  2 Trainer Schedule obtained via authenticated access

4.  ONLINE TESTS AND EVALUATIONS
Online tests may be used as (i) anonymous prerequisite tests to
check the skills level of eLearning students, (ii) didactical tests
with multiple choice answers and the right answer(s) displayed
after each question or even (iii) tutorial tests to be configured
and used by an eLearning tutor at runtime in order to establish a
common  level of understanding or just terminology for further
learning.  Evaluations  are  then  available  at  runtime and yield a
highly useful feedback e.g. to the tutor on the skills level of the
students.















Fig.  3 Online test evaluation: test statistic by theme

5.  WORLDWIDE CERTIFICATION
EXAMPLE
Integrated  administration  for  eLearning,
internet  catalogue,
authenticated  access  and  online  tests  have  been  used  by  a  large
corporation wanting to qualify its world wide partners for special
tasks  and  safeguard  the  qualification  by  a  certification  process.
The  certificate  should  finally  be  awarded  after  passing  an
elaborate  theoretical  exam  in  an  independent  professional  test
center  and  a  practical  exam  in  the  corporation  itself.  The
preselection should be done according to the same  requirements





433
