[1]  Barwise, Jon and Etchemendy, John. Visual information and

valid reasoning. in: Visualization in Mathematics,
Zimmerman and Cunningham (eds.), Mathematical
Association of America, Washington, D.C., 1990.

[2]  Glasgow, Janice, Narayanan, N.Hari, and Chandrasekaran, B.

(eds.). Diagrammatic Reasoning. AAAI/MIT Press, Menlo
Park, CA, 1995.

[3]  Hammer, Eric. Logic and Visual Information. CSLI Press,

Stanford, CA, 1995.

[4]  Allwein, Gerard and Barwise, Jon (eds.). Logical Reasoning

with Diagrams, Oxford University Press, 1996.

[5]  Wollowski, Michael and Signorelli, Robert. Towards a

General-Purpose XML Search Engine. Presentation at the
8th Search Engine Meeting, Boston, MA, 2000.



Figure 2. The rendered image of the file from figure 1.

Each set of data is enclosed in a separate dataset element. This
element  has  a  label  attribute  identifying  the  dataset  in  the
legend. In our example, we have data for men and for women. A
dataset consists of datapoint elements. Every datapoint
has two attributes identifying the values across the horizontal axis
(x1)  and  the  vertical  axis  (x2).  Data  points  are  represented  by
bars in a bar chart and through a connected line in a line chart. In
a pie chart, each dataset represents a slice of the pie, and instead
of  containing  datapoint  elements,  it  has  a  second  attribute,
value.

3.  DIAGRAMMATIC SEARCH AND
INFERENCE ENGINE
In  order  for  a  search  engine  to  return  meaningful  results,  we
designed a special-purpose search engine which is tailor made for
our XML format. See [5] for more information on special-purpose
XML search engines.
To get a sense of how to interpret the data of charts in our system,
we will rewrite a datapoint. First, we substitute in the contents of
the  title  element  and  the  value  of  label  attribute  from  its
surrounding  dataset  element.  We  then  substitute  the  x1  and  x2
attributes with the contents of their corresponding axis elements.
The  resulting  first  datapoint  of  the  dataset  for  men  looks  as
follows:

<4-Year GPA by Gender Men "Year = 2000" "GPA = 2.6"/>

Each  datapoint  now  contains  all  information  pertaining  to  it.  At
this point, we can search each datapoint individually and display
all  that  satisfy  a  given  query.  Suppose  that  the  user  enters  the
keyword  “women”.  The  results  of  this  query  are  displayed  in
figure 3. In it, we return all datapoints, as modified above, which
contain  this  keyword.  The  results  are  presented  in  a  nested
fashion,  so  as  to avoid repetition of information. Furthermore, a
link to the source XML document is presented.

375
