[1] Hewlett-Packard Press Release, HP shows off system that affords
every customer a personal shopper, May 2007
[2] Houben, J., et al., State of the art: semantic interoperability for
distributed user profiles, Telematica Institut Report, 2005.
[3] Ghosh, R., Dekhil, M., “I, me and my phone: identity and
personalization using mobile devices”, HP Labs Technical Report
HPL-2007-184, November 2007.
[4] Ankolekar, A., Vrandecic, D., Personalizing web surfing with
semantically enriched personal profiles, in Proceedings of the
Semantic Web Personalization Workshop, Budva, 2006.
[5]Windows Live ID, accountservices.passport.net/
[6] Liberty Alliance, projectliberty.org/
[7] Microsoft Connected Services Framework,
microsoft.com/serviceproviders/solutions/connectedservicesframewor
k.mspx

Figure 2: Partial snapshot of Retail User Profile Ontology
2.2  Retail User Profile Ontology
We  have  designed  an  OWL  ontology  to  explicitly  define  the
semantics  of  a  user  profile  targeted  towards  the  retail  domain—the
Retail User Profile Ontology (RUPO). It uses shared concepts from
several  existing  ontologies  such  as  FOAF  and  vCard,  and  uses
concepts  related  to  the  retail  domain  from  the  National  Retail
Federation’s  Association  for  Retail  Technology  Standards’  IXRetail
specification; it is a ‘living’ entity and is being revised based on our
ongoing  experiences  with  retail  solutions.  A  simplified  snapshot  of
the  RUPO  in  UML-like  notation  is  represented  in  Figure  2.  The
linkages  in  the  ontology  of  a  user's  profile  to  user-created  content
such  as  their  wish  lists  and  shopping  lists  are  strengthened  by  the
increasing  emergence  of  Web  2.0  services  that  export  their  data
through APIs (e.g. using the RDF-based RSS, or Atom formats).
2.3  Profile in your Pocket
The  SUPER  framework  supports  distributed  and  mobile  profiles,
based on our previous work [3]—users can carry their profiles in their
pockets via their cell phones or PDAs. Generally, user profiles can be
stored  on  the  service-side  (users  don’t  have  enough  control),  or
entirely user-side (disadvantage being the information is not specific
or  rich  enough  to  be  useful  to  different  services).  We  believe  in  a
combination of these two approaches, with users using their mobile
device
information  about
themselves,  which  can  then  be  combined  with  service-specific  user
profiles that are maintained at the service end. We have been using
RUPO, and similar to [4] the FOAF (friend-of-a-friend) ontology, to
express these user-authored profiles.
3.  PROOF OF CONCEPT
We have built a prototype of the SUPER profile management framework
to  validate  our  approach,  as  shown  in  Figure  3.  Our  implementation
focused  on  one  of  the  primary  use  cases  in  retail    scenarios—a  user
walking up to the RSA kiosk in a store, identifying himself and expecting
a  list  of  offers/coupons  customized  for  him  based  on  his  aggregate
profile. Multiple data sources (representing sources internal and external
to  a  retailer)  were  used.  We  assume  the  user  has  a  priori  informed
SUPER which sources it is allowed to use. Calendar/event information
can be a valuable source of insight into what a customer wants to buy or

to  assert  general  preferences  and

1230WWW 2008 / Poster PaperApril 21-25, 2008 · Beijing, China
