[1] I. Caballero and E. Verbo. A Data Quality

Measurement Information Model based on ISO/IEC
15939. In Proceedings of the 12th International
Conference on Information Quality, 2007.

[2] J. Ellman. Eurowordnet: A multilingual database with

lexical semantic networks. Nat. Lang. Eng.,
9(4):427–430, 2003.

[3] F. P. Romero, J. A. Olivas, and P. J. Garces. Inference

based on fuzzy deformable prototypes for information
ﬁltering in dynamic web repositories. In Proceedings of
the 2007 IEEE International Conference on Fuzzy
Systems, pages 1403–1408, 2007.

[4] A. Schwartz and M. Hearst. A simple algorithm for

identifying abbreviation deﬁnitions in biomedical texts.
In Proceedings of the Paciﬁc Symposium on
Biocomputing (PSB 2003), pages 451-462, 2003.

Figure 1: Tool Architecture

2. Semantic Query Expansion: Once the user sends a
query to the system, the ﬁrst step is to build a set of ad-
ditional queries that complement the original one. In
these queries new terms semantically related to those
of the original one are included (synonyms, terms used
to deﬁne the correct sense, concepts stored in ontolo-
gies like MeSH3). This process is guided through the
user proﬁle information because the relevant terms are
not the same for diﬀerent users groups.

3. Multilingual Query Expansion: Medical care is a multi-
cultural and multilingual environment. This situation
means that the information is disseminated in diﬀer-
ent languages, and therefore, it is more diﬃcult to ﬁnd
the right information. When the tool processes non-
English documents or queries, it is used a component
called InterLingual Index (ILI) [2] to get the equivalent
meanings between diﬀerent languages and to expand
the query using diﬀerent languages.

2.2 Filtering Step

The large volume of results that are generated after the
query execution is a major problem among users. Therefore
it is necessary to ﬁlter and to retrieve relevant information.
In this tool, the ﬁltering model is based on four knowledge
components with the aim of improving the precision of the
obtained results.

• Filtering based on Data Quality: Applying data qual-
ity principles is a useful strategy for narrowing the
search space in order to minimize computational costs
and to increase the user satisfaction. In this tool some
data quality ﬁltering criteria such as the reliability,
completeness and timeliness are used [1].

• Filtering based on Fuzzy Prototypes [3]: It is applied
a special approach of category-based ﬁltering. In this
ﬁltering method the documents are divided into cat-
egories using concepts that ocurr in each document.
These categories are organized into a fuzzy hierarchi-
cal structure and represented as fuzzy deformable pro-
totypes. The ﬁltering process is performed using a
conceptual matching among the fuzzy prototypes and
the documents contents. Since ﬁltering is a dynamic
process, the hierarchy and the prototypes are automat-
ically updated.

3http://www.nlm.nih.gov/pubs/factsheets/mesh.html

WWW 2009 MADRID!Poster Sessions: Wednesday, April 22, 20091078
