Message from the General Chairs


On behalf of the International World Wide Web Conference Committee (IW3C2) and Beihang University, we
are  delighted  to  welcome  you  to  the  17th  International  World  Wide  Web  Conference  (WWW2008)  in  the
historical city of Beijing, the capital of China and the host of the 2008 Olympics Games.
The WWW conference is the premier international forum for sharing the latest information about the Web, its
technologies, and its future evolution. The theme of this year’s conference is “One World, One Web” with three
daily themes that reflect the three major trends of the Web:
Web of People: People are moving from passively browsing the Web to actively collaborating and sharing their
lives on the Web.
Web of Rich Media: The Web is moving from presenting plain text and simple images to providing rich media
experiences, and
Web of Devices: Access to the Web is becoming ubiquitous as it now comes from computers, TV’s, mobile
phones, and various devices.
WWW2008 received a record number of refereed paper submissions this year. Complementing the high quality
papers are 12 exciting workshops, 15 informative tutorials, several expert panels, Industrial track and more than
110  posters  with  late-breaking  results,  plus  the  always-popular  Developers  Track,  W3C track,  and  a  special
WWW in China track. You certainly have a very busy week ahead of you.
It is difficult to estimate the time and effort required to organize a conference of this magnitude - and we could
not have done it without the passion and dedication from many people on the WWW2008 team.  Particularly
demanding is the task of the Program Chairs: we thank Wei-Ying Ma, Andrew Tomkins, and Xiaodong Zhang
for their many hours of work on the conference, and to Yahoo! for hosting the PC meeting in California.  The
high quality of the technical program owes much to the efforts of the PC chairs, as well as those of the track
chairs, deputy chairs, program committee, and external reviewers. Zaiqing Nie, our proceedings chair, did an
excellent job in assembling the final proceedings with the help from Lisa Tolles of Sheridan Printing to meet the
ACM requirements.
The  Local  Organizing  Committee  did  a  remarkable  job  in  meeting  the  demands  of  a  large  International
Conference like WWW2008. Beihang Asset Management Co., Ltd served as the conference PCO, dealing with
many logistical issues. Key20 Media handled the WWW2008 sponsorship program. We thank Yammie Yuen
for her super-human efforts as Registration Chair, Financial officer, and Web master! IW3C2 and WWW2007
(especially Carey Williamson) gave valuable advice and support at crucial moments. Anqi Li from our PCO
handled the hotel contracts, travel information, social events, exhibitions, and CD production. Lily Zhang did an
excellent job handling the publicity of the conference. Hailong Sun worked diligently on the program guide and
Student Travel Assistance program. The WWW2007 volunteer team coordinated by Chunming Hu, Zongxia
Du,  and  John  Miller  did  thorough  preparations  to  ensure  that  everything  would  run  smoothly  during  the
conference week.  Special thanks go to our two General Vice Chairs: Hsiao-Wuen Hon, managing director of
Microsoft  Research  Asia,  who  oversaw  our  marketing  efforts  and  provided  many  excellent  resources  from
MSRA, and Professor Yunhao Liu from HKUST, who oversaw the conference operations.
We  also  wish  to  thank  our  four  plenary  speakers  (Tim  Berners-Lee,  Kai-Fu  Lee,  Harry  Shum,  and  David
Belanger) for sharing their insights, as well as the other authors and presenters for their contributions. We also
thank  our  sponsors  (especially  Microsoft  and  Google)  for  their  generous  financial  contributions  to  the
conference.  Thank  you  all  for  attending  WWW2008.  Enjoy  the  conference,  the  food,  and  the  beautiful  and
charming city of Beijing!








Jinpeng Huai
Beihang University

Robin Chen
AT&T Labs

iii


