Program Co-Chair’s Message

On behalf of the WWW2004 Program Committee, we are pleased to welcome you to Manhattan,
the heart of New York City and the financial capital of the world.
WWW2004 is the 13th conference in the International World Wide Web Conference series. We are
pleased to publish these proceedings, which include alternate track and poster papers.  This year,
we received 86 submissions to the alternate tracks. We accepted 23 papers, along with two invited
papers, for the proceedings and presentation at the conference, which translates into an acceptance
rate of 26.7%. The program committee in four alternate tracks rigorously reviewed all papers.
•  Education
•
•  Web of Communities
•  Web Services
There are also a number of papers being presented in the refereed papers track, which are being
published separately from these proceedings. This year, we accepted 74 papers out of 506 paper
submissions in the refereed papers track for an acceptance rate of 14.6%. Altogether, we received
592 paper submissions for both the refereed papers track and alternate tracks this year.

Industrial Practice

In addition to paper submissions, we also received 223 poster submissions of which 44 where pre-
accepted  based  on  a  prior  paper  submission.    The  remaining  179  poster  submissions  were
reviewed and 102 were accepted for an acceptance rate of 57%.  A two-page summary for each of
the 146 accepted posters are included in these proceedings.

Many  people  contributed  to  the  success  of  the  program.  We  would  like  to  thank  the  entire
WWW2004 program committee for their exceptional work and dedication in the review process.
Mae  Isaac  provided  outstanding  organizational  and  technical  support.  Judy  Warren,  Pia  Owens
and Ken Wee designed and deployed the WWW2004 web site. Anatol Kark and Howard Johnson
managed  WitanWeb,  the  paper  submission  and  review  system  used  throughout  the  conference.
Finally,  Lisa  Tolles-Efinger  of  Sheridan  Printing  put  together  the  proceedings  you  now  hold  in
your hands.  Thanks to all of them!
                Marc Najork
                    Microsoft Research

Craig Wills
Worcester Polytechnic Institute











iv






