Information (cid:147)Uptrieval": Exploring Models for Content
Assimilation and Aggregation for Developing Regions

Sheetal Agarwal, Arun Kumar, Sougata Mukherjea,

4, Block C, Vasant Kunj, Institutional Area, New Delhi - 110070, INDIA.
{sheetaga, kkarun, smukherj, namit, rnitendra}@in.ibm.com

Amit Anil Nanavati, Nitendra Rajput

IBM India Research Laboratory

ABSTRACT
Information Retrieval on the WWW is important because it
is hard to (cid:12)nd what one is looking for. There is a plethora
of information available, and searching relevant information
is a challenge.
In the case of developing regions, we have
the opposite problem: (1) Information availability of global
markets is scarce. Most of the consumers and producers (of
information as well as goods) are relegated to local mar-
kets in geographical vicinity. In order to reach wider mar-
kets, it is important for this local information to reach wider
audiences. (Local information for global consumption LIG
model). (2) At the same time, locally relevant information,
such as delays in bus/train timings, mobile medical van
schedule changes, electricity outage timings, is not easily
available either. (Local information for local consumption
LIL model). We introduce the term Information Uptrieval
to address the reverse problem of acquiring, assimilating, ag-
gregating and uploading global and local information that is
relevant for developing regions to a platform that improves
the reach of the information. While the WWW is an ob-
vious example of one such platform, given the low internet
penetration in such regions, we need to explore e(cid:11)ective al-
ternatives. Several innovative, but disconnected approaches
have been attempted to address the information uptrieval
problem, ranging from the use of DVDs1 through the use of
wireless stations on motorcycles2. Many of these have met
with reasonable success in their pilot deployments.

Categories and Subject Descriptors
H.4.m [Information Systems]: Miscellaneous

Keywords
Developing Regions, Information Management

1. OBJECTIVE & SCOPE

This panel will address methods and techniques to ad-
dress the information uptrieval problem. In particular, dis-
till what can be gleaned from the experiences of the various

1eSagu,http://www.esagu.in/esagu
2First Mile Solutions,http://www.(cid:12)rstmilesolutions.com

Copyright is held by the author/owner(s).
WWW 2008, April 21(cid:150)25, 2008, Beijing, China.
ACM 978-1-60558-085-2/08/04.

pilots and hopefully carve out a systematic and scalable ap-
proach for information uptrieval.

2. TARGET AUDIENCE

Practitioners, academicians and students working in the
area of providing IT services to the underprivileged are likely
to bene(cid:12)t from the panel discussions. The panel will also be
attractive to researchers who are interested in increasing the
scope of the WWW beyond the IT savvy population, which
is estimated to be a huge 4 billion people.

3. DETAILED DESCRIPTION

Despite the tremendous increase in the penetration of
World Wide Web over the last two decades, more than 70%
of the world population is still untouched by this revolu-
tion. The population in developing countries faces barriers
in terms of the access mechanisms and infrastructure (among
other reasons) that are used to get information from the
web. The information needs of these people are very of-
ten local. They are interested in knowing the crop prices,
weather, and bus timings, in their region. This kind of in-
formation is not globally required and hence is typically not
currently available on the web. More importantly, hardly
any channels exist for these people to contribute such infor-
mation for others’ consumption. Therefore, it is important
to (cid:12)nd ways for this population { the producers and con-
sumers of local information { to leverage and suitably adapt
the World Wide Web to their own needs. In countries such
as South Africa, India and Brazil, several initiatives have
been taken to use a kiosk-based model for information de-
livery. These solutions make use of an educated operator
who manages the kiosk and operates the computer. She is
responsible to disseminate the required information. and to
upload the information that she gathers. At the same time,
the developing countries have seen a tremendous growth in
the mobile phone penetration. Mobile phones o(cid:11)er a po-
tential device that can be used directly by the masses to
access information. The panel discussion on Web Delivery
Models for Developing Regions at WWW 2007 was focussed
on (cid:12)nding the right delivery model(s) for Internet services.
This year, we intend to focus on the opposite problem.

4. LIST OF DEBATABLE POINTS OF VIEW

(cid:15) We now have the bene(cid:12)t of the experience of several
point solutions for the Information Uptrieval problem.

1257WWW 2008 / Panel OverviewApril 21-25, 2008 · Beijing, ChinaCan we make the approach systematic and (cid:12)nd a gen-
eral solution?

(cid:15) Should there be one method for Information Uptrieval

or many?

{ If many, then

(cid:3) Can we identify which method is to be used

under which conditions?

(cid:3) Is there a common underlying approach that

is scalable?

(cid:15) The WWW is a natural (cid:12)t for the LIG model (de(cid:12)ned
above). Do we need a di(cid:11)erent platform for the LIL
model?

5. SIMILAR PANELS

(cid:15) Web Delivery Models for Developing Regions a panel

at WWW 2007, Ban(cid:11), Canada, May 9, 20073.

This panel was on trying to (cid:12)nd the right delivery model
for the internet services that can be applicable to peo-
ple in developing regions. The panel brought together
academicians and researchers from the industry work-
ing on projects in developing countries to brainstorm
on the di(cid:11)erent requirements and the usability aspects
of the population that has several economic, social and
IT challenges.

The current proposal is a follow-up of this panel.

(cid:15) "Education" { a panel at Needs and Opportunities for
Technology in Developing Regions workshop at the
United Nations-Berkeley "Bridging the Divide" confer-
ence, April 23, 2005.

This panel focused on the di(cid:11)erent challenges for pro-
viding access to education for low-income students and
slums in developing countries with case studies from
South Africa, India and Bangladesh. Since the focus
was on education through ICT, other aspects of pro-
viding general IT services through the web were not
discussed in the panel.

(cid:15) "Social and Cultural Impact on ICT Women" a panel
at the ACM Grace Hopper Celebration of Women in
Computing, October 4-7, 2006 in San Diego, Califor-
nia.

This panel had focussed on the social and cultural im-
pact of ICT on women in Pakistan and Brazil. The
e(cid:11)ects of use of ICT enabled devices and services on
socio-cultural norms and traditions and the changes in
society due to the a(cid:11)ordability and availability of in-
formation and communication technologies were pre-
sented. The proposed panel however seeks to identify
the right delivery model for this society - given the so-
ciological and economic pro(cid:12)le of this population.

(cid:15) ICT in Rural Agriculture: A panel at the IJCAI 2007
workshop on AI in ICT for Development, January 8
2007, Hyderabad, India

This panel focussed on ICT technologies for agricul-
ture. However the proposed panel would be discussing

3http://www2007.org/panel2.php

about a delivery model of a variety of services that are
usable and a(cid:11)ordable to the general users, including
farmers, in developing countries.

6. RELEVANCE TO WWW

Recent years have seen a lot of interest and activity around
bridging the digital divide. The WWW conference has fo-
cussed on developing regions since 2006. In 2007, we brought
together a distinguished panel of experts. This time, we in-
tend to focus the discussion further. Given that the com-
munity is in its formative years, bringing together a panel
of such distinguished researchers together in such a forum is
very important for shaping and guiding future e(cid:11)orts.

7. PANEL FORMAT

After an initial introduction from the moderator (5 min),
each panellist will present their views on the possible up-
trieval models, and talk about their conditional applicabil-
ity (25 min). This will be followed by discussions guided by
the moderator (45 min), in the hope of trying to arrive at
a uni(cid:12)ed, scalable approach for Information Uptrieval. Fi-
nally, the panellists will provide their closing positions (10
min) followed with concluding remarks by the moderator (5
min).

8. PANELISTS

(cid:15) Richard J. Gowen, President, IEEE Foundation.

(cid:15) Arun Kumar, IBM Research, India. (Moderator)

(cid:15) Han Woo Park, YeungNam University, Korea.

(cid:15) Lakshminarayanan Subramanian, NYU, USA.

9. RELATED WORK

1. I. Medhi, A. Sagar, and K. Toyama. Text-Free User
Interfaces for Illiterate and Semi-Literate Users.
In
International Conference on Information and Commu-
nication Technologies and Development, May 2006.

2. T. S. Parikh and E. D. Lazowska. Designing an Archi-
tecture for Delivering Mobile Information Services to
the Rural Developing World. In Proc. Intl. Conf. on
World Wide Web (WWW), May 2006.

3. M. Plauche and M. Prabaker. Tamil Market: A Spo-
ken Dialog System for Rural India. In Working Papers
in Computer-Human Interfaces (CHI), 2006.

4. K. Ramamritham, A. Bahuman, C. B. S. Duttagupta,
and S. Balasundaram. Innovative ICT Tools for Infor-
mation Provision in Agricultural Extension. In ICTD
2006., Dec 2006.

5. J. Sherwani. Are Spoken Dialog Systems Viable for
Under-served Semi-literate Populations? PhD Thesis
Proposal, Carnegie Mellon University, http://www.cs.cmu.edu/
jsherwan/JS-proposal.pdf, 2005.

6. A. Kumar, N. Rajput, D. Chakraborty, S. Agarwal,
and A. A. Nanavati. WWTW: A World Wide Tele-
com Web for Developing Regions. In ACM SIGCOMM
Workshop on Networked Systems For Developing Re-
gions, Aug 2007.

1258WWW 2008 / Panel OverviewApril 21-25, 2008 · Beijing, China
