[1] Extractor. www.extractorlive.com.
[2] D. P. Kuhn. Bush’s top ten ﬂip-ﬂops: Cbsnews.com

charts the opinion switches, part 1: George bush.
www.cbsnews.com, September 2004.

[3] D. P. Kuhn. Kerry’s top ten ﬂip-ﬂops: Cbsnews.com

charts the opinion switches, part 2: John kerry.
www.cbsnews.com, September 2004.

[4] M. Sandalow. News analysis: Flip-ﬂopping charge
unsupported by facts. www.sfgate.com, September
2004.

[5] P. Turney. Learning Algorithms for Keyphrase

Extraction. Information Retrieval, 2(4):303–336, 2000.

Figure 1: Query interface in use. The user is adding
a third candidate to the selected query.

Then, using the same rules as for the statements we auto-
matically classiﬁed each of the bills.

In order to determine these main issue categories as well
as what words fall within them, we studied websites such
as that of Project Vote Smart to get an idea of the gen-
eral categories the statements fell into and then reviewed
the phrases and sentences extracted for one Democratic and
one Republican candidate (Barack Obama and John Mc-
Cain) to see which phrases correspond to which issues and
account for diﬀerent wordings between parties. Manually re-
viewing the phrases and sentences extracted for each speech
aided in ﬁnding issue speciﬁc language. For each speech we
looked at the phrases extracted, veriﬁed that they corre-
sponded to at least one of the points of the speech and then
determined based on common and issue speciﬁc knowledge
what category the phrase belonged in, and what other sim-
ilar phrases may be used to make such classiﬁcations. For
example, phrases such as “contraception” and “family plan-
ning” are common in texts dealing with abortion but rare in
other contexts. We continued this process using vote titles,
in order to identify more phrases that had originally been
missed or that might only be used in the context of a bill
rather than a speech. One example of this is CHIP (Child
Health Insurance Plan), as there were a number of votes on
the plan, though it was rarely mentioned by name outside
of bill titles.
2.3 Queries

At query time, results are retrieved from the database.
Using a drag and drop interface, a user can select any num-
ber of candidates and issues. Then, for each issue and each
candidate selected, the related votes and statements are re-
trieved and arranged in descending chronological order with
votes/statements displayed together. Figure 1 shows the
user interface.

3. DISCUSSION

The system is successful in aiding the discovery of incon-
sistencies between statements and votes, highlighting the
reasoning for a vote that may seem inconsistent with a politi-
cian’s stated beliefs, and facilitating the identiﬁcation of

1144WWW 2008 / Poster PaperApril 21-25, 2008 · Beijing, China
