[1] Carbonell, J. and Goldstein, J. The use of MMR,

diversity-based reranking for reordering documents
and producing summaries. In Proc. SIGIR, pages
335–336, 1998.

[2] Qu, Y., Hu, W., and Cheng, G. Constructing virtual

documents for ontology matching. In Proc. WWW,
pages 23–31, 2006.

Figure 3: A screenshot of Falcons Entity Summary.

lected, as depicted in Fig. 2, the results will be reﬁned to
only include the matched objects of that type. So it can
help users quickly ﬁnd the desired objects.

For each entity, to help users quickly understand it, Fal-
cons extracts a set of RDF statements about it from various
data sources on the Semantic Web and organizes them into
a summary. As depicted in Fig. 3, these statements are not
simply listed, but are clustered by diﬀerent ontologies such
as FOAF and Dublin Core (DC) according to their pred-
icates. Users can switch between the tabs to browse the
statements described by using a speciﬁc ontology, which of-
ten characterize a speciﬁc aspect of an entity. In addition,
each RDF statement is associated with its source.

3. TECHNICAL FEATURES

3.1 Finding Entities by Virtual Documents
We use information retrieval (IR) techniques to index enti-
ties. For each entity, we index all the terms from its vir-
tual document [2]. The virtual document of an entity con-
sists of its names (local name and labels), other associated
literals, and the names of its neighboring entities in RDF
graphs, decoded from all the RDF documents on the Se-
mantic Web. All these terms become eﬀective especially
when the query terms do not mention the names of the de-
sired entities. For the example depicted in Fig. 2, actually
2 do not contain the query
the labels of ontoworld:WWW2008
term “Beijing” but Falcons can still ﬁnd it because the value
of its “has-location-city” property is ontoworld:Beijing.

In this way, each term is indexed to more entities than in
the traditional methods. So we devise a weighting scheme to
ensure that well matched entities, e.g., whose labels match
the query terms, will be ranked higher.
In ranking, the
popularity of entities is also considered.
3.2 Recommending Ontologies for Concept Search
For each ontology, we index the virtual documents of all its
classes and properties. So for each query, the candidate on-
tologies can be immediately obtained. The recommendation
2The preﬁx ontoworld indicates http://ontoworld.org/
wiki/Special:URIResolver/.

1102WWW 2008 / Poster PaperApril 21-25, 2008 · Beijing, China
