[1]  HA Kautz, B Selman, MA Shah. The Hidden Web. AI

Magazine, 1997.

[2]  Raghu Ramakrishnan, Andrew Tomkins, Towards a People

Web. Computer, Vol. 40, No. 8. (2007)

[3]  Kleinberg, J, Authoritative Sources in a Hyperlinked

Environment. - Journal of the ACM, 1999



In figure 1, we show a collection of mebs for a user John. John
has  multiple  web-identities  (on  different  sites  &  communication
mechanisms).  John’s social network will know him through such
ids.    Bold  lines  in  the  figure  indicate  these  social  relationships.
The  MEBs  contain  hyperlinks  to  the  subject_URLs  which  they
are about.
The  information  shown  in  the  dotted  box  includes  the  multiple
user  identities  of  John  and  his  MEB  store.  This  information  is
owned  by  the  user.  Other  users  also  have  their  MEB  clouds.
Retaining the link between the user and his content allows us to
enable queries which take into account the opinion of my social
network.
Conceptually,  a  MEB  gets  created  as  a  by-product  of  a  web
interaction provided the user chooses to do so. One way of doing
this is by using a browser agent to send notifications to a central
repository server when posting new  content  as  suggested  in  [2].
We  have  implemented  MEB  creation  using  browser  plug-ins.  A
user may choose to store her MEBs at the entity-site (provided the
site supports this) and/or publish it  on  one  or  more  of  her  web-
presences  (blogs,  facebook-page  etc.).  We  believe  that  user-
centricity  for  MEB  is  important  for  two  reasons:  (a)  MEBs  are
created at different websites but must be stored in a user-centered
fashion  and  (b)  user  must  have  absolute  control  over  who  can
access their opinions captured in MEBs.

4.3  Searching Personal Expression on Social
Networks
We enable opinion queries of the form, given a set of people V,
and  a  user  query  σ,  find  V’s  STRAT  content  on  σ.  For  e.g.
assuming  that  John  has  access  to  Jeff’s  MEB  cloud,  John  can
query  ‘what  has  Jeff  said  about  the  book,  Harry  Potter  and  the
Sorcerer Stone’.
The set of people specified in V should be communication-ids e.g.
‘john@gmail’ or id on a social networking site like Facebook etc.
The  querier  may  specify  these  ids  explicitly  (john@gmail)  or


WWW 2009 MADRID!Poster Sessions: Friday, April 24, 20091218
