

Continuous Web: A New Image-Based Hypermedia

and Scape-Oriented Browsing

Hiroya Tanaka

Department of Social Informatics,

Katsumi Tanaka

Department of Social Informatics,

Graduate School of Informatics, Kyoto University
Yoshida-Honmachi, Sakyo, Kyoto 606-8501, Japan

+81-75-753-5385

hirotanaka@dl.kuis.kyoto-u.ac.jp

Graduate School of Informatics, Kyoto University
Yoshida-Honmachi, Sakyo, Kyoto 606-8501, Japan

+81-75-753-5969

tanaka@dl.kuis.kyoto-u.ac.jp

ABSTRACT
Conventionally,  Web  pages  have  been  recognized  as  documents
described  by  HTML.  Image  data,  such  as  photographs,  logos,
maps,  illustrations,  and  decorated  text,  have  been  treated  as
sub-components  of  Web  documents.  However,  we  can
alternatively  recognize  all  Web  pages  as  images  on  the  screen.
When  a  Web  page  is  treated  as  an  image,  its  HTML  data  is
considered  to  be  metadata  which  describes  the  image  content.
Taking  such  a  viewpoint,  we  propose  a  new  image-based
hypermedia which we call continuous web. In our model, there is
no  distinction  between  Web  images  and  other  images  such  as
photographs.
Regarding everything on the Web as images leads us to consider a
new  style  of  browsing  and  navigating.  We  use  the  term
scape-oriented  browsing.  We  define  a  scape  as  a  collection  of
continuously  accumulated  images.  For  example,  whenever  we
walk  in  the  real  world,  we  can  perceive  and  remember  various
forms of information through a scape process. Here, we describe
new  methods  for  scape-oriented  browsing,  such  as  see-through
anchors,  parallel  navigation,  and  peripheral  scape  presentation.
We have designed and implemented a prototype system based on
our model. Our system offers continuous browsing and navigation
to  users.  We  explain  our  concepts  and  discuss  the  effectiveness
and potential of this approach.
Categories and Subject Descriptors
H.4.3  [Information  Systems  Applications]:  Communications
Applications - Information browsers
Interfaces
H.5.4
Hypertext/Hypermedia-Navigation
General Terms
Management, Design, Theory
Keywords
Images, Scape, Hyperimage

1.  CONCEPT
1.1  Scape-Oriented Browsing
The  conventional  Web  is  based  on  documents,  but  regarding
everything on the Web as images lets us consider a new style of
browsing  and  navigating.  We  call  this  concept  scape-oriented
browsing and navigation. A collection of scapes provides us with
rich  information  continually  The  relevant  features  of  walking  in

Copyright is held by the author/owner(s).
WWW 2004, May 17-22, 2004, New York, NY USA.
ACM 1-58113-912-8/04/0005.

Presentation]:

[Information

and





an actual cityscape are that:
(cid:122)  Users  can  see  their  immediate  destinations  through  the

scape.

(cid:122)  Users  can  examine  areas  at  the  periphery  of  the  focused

scape.

(cid:122)  While walking, user can see continuous scene transitions.

surveying at the periphery of the focused scape

Focused Scape

seeing the next destination through the scape


Figure 1       Features of real-world browsing and navigation

Figure  1  shows  these  features  of  seamless  browsing  and
navigation  in  the  real  world.  It  is  natural  for  us  to  continuously
explore  the  real  world  in  such  a  manner.  This  natural  mode  of
recognition  suggests  various  ways  we  can  make  Web  browsing
more intuitive:


(cid:122)  See-through  Anchors:  The  notion  of  anchors  can  be
extended into the notion of see-through anchors. Intuitively,
a  see-through  anchor  means  that  users  can  see  the  link
destination  through  the  anchor.  By  zooming  in  on  a
see-through  anchor,  users  can  view
the  destination
hyperimage more clearly.

(cid:122)  Peripheral  Scape  Browsing:  Whenever  users  walk  in  a
real world space, they can see their immediate destinations
as  well  as
this
characteristic,  we  have  developed  a  Web  browser  that
allows a user to simultaneously browse both the destination
page and the peripheral scape.

their  peripheral  area.  To  recreate

(cid:122)  Parallel Link-Navigation: A Web image usually contains
more  than  one  anchor.  By  zooming-in  on  a  portion  of  a
Web-image that contains more than one anchor, users can
view more than one link destination at the same time. This
is  called  parallel  link-navigation,  which  is  not  supported
by  the  conventional  Web  model  or  conventional  Web
browsers.

240

Figure 2    Navigation model link to walking in a cityscape.



(cid:122)  The zooming slider enables users to zoom in and out.
(cid:122)  Scroll  buttons enable users to change their observational

scope vertically and horizontally.

(cid:122)  The  main window displays several images. The user can

click an anchor image to get the next image.
Screen images of WebWalker are shown in Figure 4.


image

for  new  style


Figure.2  describes  our  conceptual
Web-browsing.

2.  IMPLEMENTATION
We  have  designed  and  implemented  a  browsing  environment  to
test  our  models.  Our  system  consisted  of  a  server,
the
WebPhotoServer,  and  a  new  web  browser  for  clients,  the
WebWalker. Figure 3 shows the system architecture.

Figure 3    System architecture



2.1  WebPhotoServer
When  the  WebPhotoServer  receives  a  request  with  a  URI,  it
returns a pair consisting of a Web image and metadata containing
the  image’s  original  HTML  text  data  and  anchor  position
information. The process is performed as follows:
(1)  The server receives a request with a URI.
(2)  The  server  gets  an  HTML  source  from  the  Web  and
displays it as a Web page (by using one of the conventional
Web browsers which can be selected).

(3)  The server takes a snapshot of the Web page, and produces

a Web image and the related metadata.

(4)  The server returns a pair consisting of a Web image and its

related metadata.

The metadata is described in an XML format. Through access to a
document  object  model  (DOM),  the  geometric  coordinates  of
HTML tag elements on the screen are easily obtained.
2.2  WebWalker
WebWalker  is  a  web  browser  that  incorporates  the  new  methods
Its interface consists of three main parts: a zooming slider, scroll
buttons, and a main window.








Figure 4    The WebWalker interface



We  made  a  demonstration  movie  of  our  browsing/navigation
system which can be viewed at

<http://www.dl.kuis.kyoto-u.ac.jp/~hirotanaka/webwalker.avi>

241
