Keynote Talk

Innovation for a Human-Centered Network
— NTT’s R&D Activities for Achieving the NTT Group’s

Medium-Term Management Strategy —







Yuji Inoue

NTT

Tokyo, JAPAN
yuji@m.ieice.org


Abstract
This talk presents NTT’s approach for realizing a Human-Centered Network. Last November, we
announced  the  NTT  Group’s  Medium-Term  Management  Strategy,  which  consists  of  three
management  objectives:  (1)  building  the  ubiquitous  broadband  market  and  helping  achieve  the
e-Japan  Strategy  and  the  u-Japan  Initiative;  (2)  building  a  safe,  secure,  and  convenient
communications  network  environment  and  broadband  access  infrastructure,  while  achieving  a
seamless  migration  from  the  legacy  telephone  network  to  the  next  generation  network;  and  (3)
striving to increase corporate value and achieve sustainable growth. Since the management strategy
takes account of Japan’s future social issues such as declining birthrate and aging population, the
need  to  reduce  the  environmental  load,  etc,  we  believe  that  the R&D  activities  directed  towards
accomplishing these objectives consequently lead to the realization of a Human-Centered Network.

Biographical Notes
The speaker is a Senior VP of NTT and has been the Executive Director of Dept. III since June
2002. He is currently responsible for NTT's R&D strategy and management. He received the B.E.,
M.E.  and  Ph.  D  degrees  from  Kyushu  University,  Fukuoka,  Japan,  in  1971,  1973  and  1986,
respectively. After joining NTT Laboratories in 1973, he was engaged in the development of digital
network  equipment  and  systems,  in  particular  aspects  such  as  digital  synchronization,  digital
switching  and  digital  subscriber  loop  transmission.  He  was  also  active  in  ITU-T  standardization
activities in the field of narrow  and broadband ISDN, SDH, and TINA. In 1998, he became the
head of the NTT Multimedia Networks Laboratories. He joined NTT Data Corporation as Deputy
Senior Executive Manager of the Research and Development Headquarters in July 1999. Dr. Inoue
is an IEICE Fellow and also an IEEE Fellow.






Copyright is held by the author/owner(s).
WWW 2005, May 10-14, 2005, Chiba, Japan.
ACM 1-59593-046-9/05/0005.


