Program Co-Chair’s Message

On behalf of the WWW2004 Program Committee, we are pleased to welcome you to Manhattan,
the heart of New York City and the financial capital of the world.
WWW2004 is the 13th conference in the International World Wide Web Conference series. This
year,  we  received  506  submissions  to  the  refereed  paper  track,  the  second-highest  number  of
submissions ever. We accepted 74 papers for the proceedings and presentation at the conference,
which  translates  into  an  acceptance  rate  of  14.6%.  All  papers  were  rigorously  reviewed  by  the
technical program committee, which was divided into the following nine areas:
•  Applications
•  Browsers and User Interfaces
•  Data Mining
•  Mobility and Wireless Access
•  Performance and Reliability
•  Search
•  Security and Privacy
•  Semantic Web
•  Web Engineering
The  Semantic  Web  area  received  the  largest  number  of  submissions  (99  papers),  followed  by
Search (83 papers), Data Mining (63 papers), and Web Engineering (63 papers).

This year, WWW2004 is co-located with the ACM Conference on Electronic Commerce (EC’04).
We therefore decided to suspend the customary Electronic Commerce area of the refereed track,
and  encouraged  authors  of  E-Commerce  papers  to  submit  to  EC’04  instead.  Furthermore,
WWW2004 and EC’04  will  feature half a day of joint presentations this  year, including a joint
plenary session with presentations by Udi Manber and Rick Rashid.

There are also a number of papers being presented in alternate tracks which are being published
separately  from  the  main  proceedings.  This  year,  we  accepted  23  papers  out  of  86  paper
submissions in the alternate tracks (not counting invited papers), with an acceptance rate of 26.7%.
Altogether,  we  received  592 paper  submissions  for  both  the  refereed  papers  track  and  alternate
tracks this year.

Many  people  contributed  to  the  success  of  the  program.  We  would  like  to  thank  the  entire
WWW2004 program committee for their exceptional work and dedication in the review process.
Mae  Isaac  provided  outstanding  organizational  and  technical  support.  Judy  Warren,  Pia  Owens
and Ken Wee designed and deployed the WWW2004 web site. Anatol Kark and Howard Johnson
managed  WitanWeb,  the  paper  submission  and  review  system  used  throughout  the  conference.
Finally,  Lisa  Tolles-Efinger  of  Sheridan  Printing  put  together  the  proceedings  you  now  hold  in
your hands.  Thanks to all of them!
                Marc Najork
                    Microsoft Research

Craig Wills
Worcester Polytechnic Institute











iv






