knowing users  views and demographic traits o ers a great potential for personalizing web search results or related services such as query suggestion and query completion. such signals however are often only available for a small fraction of search users, namely those who log in with their social network account and allow its use for personalization of search results. in this paper, we o er a solution to this problem by showing how user demographic traits such as age and gender, and even political and religious views can be e -ciently and accurately inferred based on their search query histories. this is accomplished in two steps; we  rst train predictive models based on the publically available myper-sonality dataset containing users  facebook likes and their demographic information. we then match facebook likes with search queries using open directory project categories. finally, we apply the model trained on facebook likes to large-scale query logs of a commercial search engine while explicitly taking into account the di erence between the traits distribution in both datasets. we  nd that the accuracy of classifying age and gender, expressed by the area under the roc curve (auc), are 77% and 84% respectively for predictions based on facebook likes, and only degrade to 74% and 80% when based on search queries. on a us state-by-state basis we  nd a pearson correlation of 0.72 for political views between the predicted scores and gallup data, and 0.54 for a liation with judaism between predicted scores and data from the us religious landscape survey. we conclude that it is indeed feasible to infer important demographic data of users from their query history based on labelled likes data and believe that this approach could provide valuable information for personalization and monetization even in the absence of demographic data.  the work was done during bin s internship at microsoft research cambridge. copyright is held by the international world wide web conference committee (iw3c2). iw3c2 reserves the right to provide a hyperlink to the author s site if the material is used in electronic media. www 2013, may 13 17, 2013, rio de janeiro, brazil. acm 978-1-4503-2035-1/13/05.
