the  increasing  availability  of  gps-enabled  devices  is  changing the  way  people  interact  with  the  web,  and  brings  us  a  large amount  of  gps location histories. in this paper, based on multiple users  gps trajectories, we  aim  to  mine  interesting  locations  and  classical  travel sequences in a given geospatial region. here, interesting locations mean  the  culturally  important  places,  such  as  tiananmen  square in  beijing,  and  frequented  public  areas,  like  shopping  malls  and restaurants,  etc.  such  information  can  help  users  understand surrounding  locations,  and  would  enable  travel  recommendation. in  this  work,  we  first  model  multiple  individuals   location histories  with  a  tree-based  hierarchical  graph  (tbhg).  second, based  on  the  tbhg,  we  propose  a  hits  (hypertext  induced topic  search)-based regards  an individual s access on a location as a directed link from the user to that location. this model infers the interest of a location by taking into  account  the  following  three  factors.  1)  the  interest  of  a location  depends  on  not  only  the  number  of  users  visiting  this location  but  also  these  users   travel  experiences.  2)  users   travel experiences  and  location  interests  have  a  mutual  reinforcement relationship. 3) the interest of a location and the travel experience of a user are relative values and are region-related. third, we mine the  classical  travel  sequences  among  locations  considering  the interests  of  these  locations  and  users   travel  experiences.  we evaluated  our  system  using  a  large  gps  dataset  collected by  107 users over a period of one year in the real world. as a result, our hits-based  inference  model  outperformed  baseline  approaches like  rank-by-count  and  rank-by-frequency.  meanwhile,  when considering  the  users   travel  experiences  and  location  interests, we achieved a better performance beyond baselines, such as rank-by-count and rank-by-interest, etc. inference  model,  which
