continuous  queries  are  used  to  monitor  changes  to time varying data  and  to  provide  results  useful  for  online  decision  making. typically a user desires to obtain the value of some function over distributed  data  items,  for  example,  to  determine  when  and whether  (a)  the  traffic  entering  a  highway  from  multiple  feed roads will result in congestion in a thoroughfare or (b) the value of a stock portfolio exceeds a threshold. using the standard web infrastructure for these applications will increase the reach of the underlying information. but, since these queries involve data from multiple  sources,  with  sources  supporting  standard  http  (pull-based) interfaces, special query processing techniques are needed. also, these applications often have the flexibility to tolerate some incoherency, i.e., some differences between the results reported to the user and that produced from the virtual database made up of the distributed data sources. this  paper,  we  develop  and  evaluate  client-pull-based in techniques  for  refreshing  data  so  that  the  results  of  the  queries over distributed data can be correctly reported, conforming to the limited incoherency acceptable to the users. we model as well as estimate the dynamics of the data items using a probabilistic approach based on markov chains. depending on the  dynamics  of  data  we  adapt  the  data  refresh  times  to  deliver query results with the desired coherency. the commonality of data needs  of  multiple  queries  is  exploited  to  further  reduce  refresh overheads.  effectiveness  of  our  approach  is  demonstrated  using live sources of dynamic data the number of refreshes it requires is (a) an order of magnitude less than what we would need if every potential update is pulled from the sources, and (b) comparable to the  number  of  messages  needed  by  an  ideal  algorithm,  one  that knows  how  to  optimally  refresh  the  data  from  distributed  data sources.  our  evaluations  also  bring  out  a  very  practical  and attractive tradeoff property of pull based approaches, e.g., a small increase  in  tolerable  incoherency  leads  to  a  large  decrease  in message overheads.
