in this paper, we study the problem of transfer learning from text to images in the context of network data in which link based bridges are available to transfer the knowledge between the di erent domains. the problem of classi cation of image data is often much more challenging than text data because of the following two reasons (a) labeled text data is very widely available for classi cation purposes. on the other hand, this is often not the case for image data, in which a lot of images are available from many sources, but many of them are often not labeled. (b) the image features are not directly related to semantic concepts inherent in class labels. on the other hand, since text data tends to have natural semantic interpretability (because of their human origins), they are often more directly related to class labels. the semantic challenges of image features are glaringly evident, when we attempt to recognize complex abstract concepts, and the visual features often fail to discriminate such concepts. however, the copious availability of bridging relationships between text and images in the context of web and social network data can be used in order to design for effective classi ers for image data. the relationships between the images and text features (which may be derived from such web-centered bridges) provide additional hints for the classi cation process in terms of the image feature transformations which provide the most e ective results. one of our goals in this paper is to develop a mathematical model for the functional relationships between text and image features, so as to indirectly transfer semantic knowledge through feature transformations. this feature transformation is accomplished by mapping instances from di erent domains into a common space of unspeci ed topics. this is used as a bridge to semantically connect the two heterogeneous spaces. we evaluate our knowledge transfer techniques on an image clas-si cation task with labeled text corpora and show the e ec-tiveness with respect to competing algorithms. copyright is held by the international world wide web conference committee (iw3c2). distribution of these papers is limited to classroom use, and personal use by others. www 2011, march 28 april 1, 2011, hyderabad, india. acm 978-1-4503-0632-4/11/03.
