1254www 2008 / panel overviewapril 21-25, 2008 · beijing, china panel protecting the web: phishing, malware, and other security threats organizer: greg aaron afilias, horsham, pa usa +1-215-706-5700 gaaron@afilias.info katharine a. bostik microsoft corporation, south east asia edmon chung dotasia organisation, hong kong rod rasmussen internet identity united states with  external  organizations  and  law  enforcement  to  protect children  impacted  by  the  internet.  prior  to  joining  microsoft, katharine served as a u.s. federal prosecutor for over 11 years. rod rasmussen, internet identity, united states rod is widely recognized as a leading expert on the abuse of the domain name system by phishing criminals.  he is co-founder of internet  identity,  which  provides  anti-phishing  services  to hundreds of large and small banks and financial institutions in the u.s. and europe.  he serves on the steering committee for the  authentication  and  online  trust  alliance  (aota),  is  an active  member  of  digital  phishnet,  a  collaboration  between industry and law enforcement, and is the anti-phishing working group's liaison to icann, the international oversight body for domain  names.    rasmussen  earned  an  mba  from  the  haas school  of  business  at  uc-berkeley  and  holds  two  bachelor’s degrees,  in  economics  and  computer  science,  from  the university of rochester. edmon chung, dotasia organisation, hong kong top-level  domain.  dotasia inventor  of  patents  underlying edmon is ceo of dotasia organisation, the operator of the new .asia is  a  not-for-profit, community-based organisation based in hong kong.  edmon is an for internationalized  domain  names  (idn)  and  email  addresses  on the internet.  edmon is currently serving as the vice chair for the internet society hk, as an elected member of the elections committee  of  the  hong  kong  special  administrative  region, an elected councillor of the icann gnso council, and to the secretariat  for  the  icann  apralo  (asia  pacific  at-large organisation). technologies panel summary web site operators, internet users, and online service providers are besieged by a growing array of abuses and threats.  spam leads  users  to  online  scams  and  phishing  web  pages,  which cyber-criminals use to steal users’ financial data and passwords. other  criminals  use  web  sites  to  spread  malware,  which  can steal personal data or take over users’ computers into a botnet, which can be used to send spam or mount cyber-attacks against web  sites  and  other  internet  services.    together,  these  abuses undermine user trust, hamper e-commerce, and cost the internet community huge losses in money, service and support costs, and time. what should web site operators and online service providers do to  protect  themselves  and  their  users?    what  are  internet companies, organizations, and law enforcement doing (and not the doing) international  internet  community  work these problems?   the panel brings together representatives from the chain of organizations that respond to internet abuse problems, and promises a lively, compelling, and relevant discussion.   and  how  can these  problems? together  on to  combat categories & subject descriptors: k.4.1 [public policy issues]: abuse and crime involving computers
