transferring knowledge from one domain to another is challenging due to a number of reasons. since both conditional and marginal distribution of the training data and test data are nonidentical, model trained in one domain, when directly applied to a di erent domain, is usually low in accuracy. for many applications with large feature sets, such as text document, sequence data, medical data, image data of di erent resolutions, etc. two domains usually do not contain exactly the same features, thus introducing large numbers of  missing values  when considered over the union of features from both domains. in other words, its marginal distributions are at most overlapping. in the same time, these problems are usually high dimensional, such as, several thousands of features. thus, the combination of high dimensionality and missing values make the relationship in conditional probabilities between two domains hard to measure and model. to address these challenges, we propose a framework that  rst brings the marginal distributions of two domains closer by  lling up  those missing values of disjoint features. afterwards, it looks for those comparable substructures in the  latent-space  as mapped from the expanded feature vector, where both marginal and conditional distribution are similar. with these substructures in latent space, the proposed approach then  nd common concepts that are transferable across domains with high probability. during prediction, unlabeled instances are treated as  queries , the mostly related labeled instances from out-domain are retrieved, and the classi cation is made by weighted voting using retrieved out-domain examples. we formally show that importing feature values across domains and latent-semantic index can jointly make the distributions of two related domains easier to measure than in original feature space, the nearest neighbor method employed to retrieve related out domain examples is bounded in error when predicting in-domain examples. software and datasets are available for download.  the author is supported by the national natural science foundation of china under grant no. 60703110 copyright is held by the international world wide web conference committee (iw3c2). distribution of these papers is limited to classroom use, and personal use by others. www 2009, april 20 24, 2009, madrid, spain. acm 978-1-60558-487-4/09/04.
