Predicting Purchase Behaviors from Social Media

Yongzheng Zhang

eBay Inc.

2065 Hamilton Ave

San Jose, CA, USA 95125
ytzhang@ebay.com

Marco Pennacchiotti

eBay Inc.

2065 Hamilton Ave

San Jose, CA, USA 95125

mpennacchiotti@ebay.com

ABSTRACT
In the era of social commerce, users often connect from e-
commerce websites to social networking venues such as Face-
book and Twitter. However, there have been few eﬀorts
on understanding the correlations between users’ social me-
dia proﬁles and their e-commerce behaviors. This paper
presents a system for predicting a user’s purchase behaviors
on e-commerce websites from the user’s social media proﬁle.
We speciﬁcally aim at understanding if the user’s proﬁle in-
formation in a social network (for example Facebook) can be
leveraged to predict what categories of products the user will
buy from (for example eBay Electronics). The paper pro-
vides an extensive analysis on how users’ Facebook proﬁle
information correlates to purchases on eBay, and analyzes
the performance of diﬀerent feature sets and learning algo-
rithms on the task of purchase behavior prediction.

Categories and Subject Descriptors
K.4.4 [Computers and Society]: Electronic Commerce;
H.3.4 [Information Storage and Retrieval]: Systems
and Software—Information networks; H.3.5 [Information
Storage and Retrieval]: Online Information Services; I.2.6
[Artiﬁcial Intelligence]: Learning

Keywords
E-commerce, social networks, social media, social commerce,
recommender systems

1.

INTRODUCTION

In recent years, many e-commerce companies such as Ama-
zon and eBay have been moving into the social media space
by allowing users to connect to social networking sites (e.g.
Facebook and Twitter). The main strategic goal for social
media interaction is to provide users with a more engag-
ing and social experience, thus increasing user retention and
adoption. More importantly, social media is often seen as
a means to rejuvenate the user base and attract younger
“social-savvy” users. Typical features unlocked by social
media include the possibility of sharing purchase activities
with friends, and tools such as friends gifting applications
and chats.

Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference
Committee (IW3C2). IW3C2 reserves the right to provide a hyperlink
to the author’s site if the Material is used in electronic media.
WWW 2013, May 13–17, 2013, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
ACM 978-1-4503-2035-1/13/05.

When users connect from an e-commerce site to social
media for the ﬁrst time, they often agree to share with the
e-commerce company basic information such as their de-
mographics and personal interests (e.g. Facebook “likes”).
However, e-commerce companies have not fully developed
technologies to leverage this information to improve impor-
tant features such as purchase behavior prediction and prod-
uct recommendation. Social media information could also
help solve the cold start problem, i.e., providing an engag-
ing and personalized experience to brand new users. When a
new user comes, traditional prediction and recommendation
algorithms cannot in fact be applied, as no past information
about the user is available.

In this paper we claim that social media information pro-
vides suﬃcient knowledge to predict, to a certain extent, the
user’s purchase behaviors. For example, a Facebook user
who “likes” the Facebook pages of many fashion brands is
more likely to purchase fashion products than a user who
mostly likes car accessories.

1.1 Problem Statement

We deal with the problem of predicting the purchase be-
haviors of social media users who have unknown history on
an e-commerce website (cold start). More in detail, we aim
at predicting which product categories (e.g. electronics) the
user will buy from by using solely information derived from
the social network. Such a predictive system would help in
several practical scenarios, including:

• build a cold start recommender system, by providing
high-level recommendations to social media users who
connect for the ﬁrst time to an e-commerce website;
• improve existing product recommendation engines, by
providing category-level priors that can guide the rec-
ommender system to ﬁnd domains of interest for the
user;

• provide e-commerce companies with tools for targeted

social media campaigns.

We instantiate the problem by choosing Facebook as the
social network, and eBay as the e-commerce website1. E-
commerce companies such as Amazon and eBay ask users
to share only a small portion of their personal social media
information, in order to protect the privacy of the users and

1eBay, among many other websites, uses the “Facebook Con-
nect” API to let users connect from eBay to Facebook.

1521of their friends. For example, both Amazon and eBay do
not ask users to share the postings and comments on their
social accounts.

In order to keep our task realistic, we therefore focus on
the restricted set of Facebook information that users are
typically required to share, namely demographic informa-
tion (age, gender) and the pages that the users have liked
on Facebook2.
In the rest of the paper we will use inter-
changeably the terms “liked pages” and “likes” to indicate
Facebook pages for which a user has expressed a preference
by clicking on the Like button.

Note that Facebook pages are organized in categories. For
example Beatles is part of the Musician/band category, and
Starbucks of Food/beverage. We will make use of category in-
formation throughout the paper. As regards the set of prod-
uct categories we want to predict, we use the 35 “eBay meta-
categories” (or “eBay categories” for brevity) which form the
ﬁrst and most general layer of the eBay product taxonomy.
Examples of meta-categories are Books and Home & Gar-
den. The list of 35 eBay meta-categories and the full taxon-
omy are available at: http://hub.shop.ebay.com.

This paper has two main goals. The ﬁrst goal is to explore
if users’ Facebook information is correlated with the eBay
categories from which the users buy. The second goal is
to leverage existing correlations to build machine learning
algorithms that predict users’ purchase behaviors from their
Facebook information.

1.2 Main Contributions

This paper provides the following main contributions:
• We provide an extensive analysis of user purchase be-
haviors and Facebook information over a dataset of
13,619 users. We show that a subset of Facebook fea-
tures correlates with purchase behaviors with statisti-
cal signiﬁcance.

• We build and evaluate various machine learning mod-
els to predict which product categories from which a
user will buy, by using Facebook information alone.
We show that the prediction task can be successfully
solved with promising accuracy.

To our knowledge this is the ﬁrst study that systematically
analyzes the correlations between social media proﬁles and
purchase behaviors on e-commerce websites.

The rest of the paper is organized as follows: Section 2
reviews relevant previous work. Section 3 reports statistics
of our dataset. In Section 4 we answer a fundamental ques-
tion: do users have speciﬁc focus when they buy online, or
do they exhibit an unpredictable behavior? In Sections 5
and 6, we analyze if speciﬁc information from social media,
namely demographic data and Facebook likes, correlates to
user behaviors on e-commerce websites. In Section 7 we de-
scribe and evaluate diﬀerent algorithms for predicting user
purchase behaviors from social media information. Finally,
Section 8 concludes our work and describes future research
directions.

2In this study we do not use the list of friends, as this in-
formation is not included in the scope of eBay’s Facebook
Connect.

2. RELATED WORK

2.1 Product Prediction and Recommendation
Recommender systems have been widely studied in the
past [26, 5, 27, 16, 8] and applied to various domains. E-
commerce is a typical application for these systems, where
they are used to predict or recommend product purchases.
Two main techniques are most used: collaborative ﬁltering
and content-based.

Collaborative Filtering Methods. The underlying as-
sumption of collaborative ﬁltering methods is that users who
carry similar characteristics will tend to like similar prod-
ucts. Users are typically represented in a vector space which
summarizes their characteristics (e.g. demographics, pur-
chased products, review scores assigned to products). These
systems suggest new products to a user by selecting a set
of products that similar users have bought or reviewed in
the past, but the user has not [30]. Sarwar et al. [28] ap-
ply nearest neighbor collaborative ﬁltering for recommend-
ing purchases and predicting movie ratings, showing that
dimensionality reduction techniques solve scaling issues on
large-data without losing accuracy. Some studies [27, 16]
have focused on the problem of sparsity.
In Section 3 we
will show the sparsity problem in social media and in the
following ones the methods to tackle it.

Item-Item collaborative ﬁltering, on the other hand, makes
product recommendations directly based on users’ past be-
haviors on e-commerce websites. Sarwar et al. [29] propose
a system that models item to item relationships and demon-
strate that such systems deliver good quality recommenda-
tions in sparse data situations. The item-item method is
also promising for incremental modelling and has big per-
formance gain over user-user modelling.

Content-based Methods. In contrast to collaborative ﬁl-
tering methods, content-based methods often utilize the vast
overload of information on the web, such as product reviews,
customer opinions, and social media (e.g. blogs, tweets) to
directly make product recommendations.
In recent years,
such systems have become more popular. Wietsma and
Ricci [33] propose a system that structures product reviews
to help rate and recommend products in a mobile decision
aid scenario. Aciar et al. [2] develop a recommender system
based on consumer product reviews. The authors apply text
mining techniques to extract useful information from review
comments and then deﬁne an ontology to translate the re-
view information into a form suitable for utilization by a
recommendation system. Sen et al. [31] use users’ tag pref-
erences to predict movie preferences and demonstrate that
such content-based systems are more eﬀective than collabo-
rative ﬁltering methods.

Our system explicitly integrates collaborative ﬁltering tech-
niques in the feature selection phase. Our selection method
for Facebook categories/likes/n-grams is inspired by model-
based approaches to collaborative ﬁltering discussed among
others by Breese et al. [4].

2.2 Recommendation on Social Media

Recommendation on social media is a fairly new topic.
Most work focuses on suggesting interesting content items
(e.g. URLs, pictures, posts) or new friends. Social media
recommender systems diﬀer from classical ones in that they

1522often leverage existing social relations to boost the recom-
mendations. Two main techniques are most used: content-
based and community-based.

Content-based methods are most popular even though
some interest has focused on collaborative ﬁltering [12]. These
systems assume that the content that users share on the so-
cial network reﬂects their own interests, thus recommending
new items that are similar to their own shared content [25,
24]. Abel et al. [1] represent users by a frequency vector of
the hashtags and entities that they mention in their tweets.
A similar vector is built for URLs shared in Twitter by an-
alyzing the content of their links. Users are then recom-
mended URLs whose vector is most similar to theirs. Sim-
ilarly, Chen et al. [6] represent users with the bag-of-words
of all terms of their tweets, and the URLs with the terms of
the tweets that mention them. Unlike these methods, in our
dataset social content (e.g. Facebook posts) is not available.

Community-based methods make the assumption that
the content coming from a user’s friends or authoritative
users is more likely to be interesting for a user than the rest.
This assumption is usually combined with content-based and
collaborative ﬁltering approaches. Yan et al. [34] select per-
sonalized tweets using random-walks on a graph that joins
the user’s friends and tweets. The walk is bootstrapped by
selecting with higher probability the tweets whose content
is similar to what was previously posted by the user. Jamali
and Ester [15] also use a random-walk approach, but they in-
tegrate collaborative ﬁltering instead of content-based tech-
niques to estimate the probability of a graph transition.
Jiang et al. [18] combine user topic preferences and social
inﬂuence into a probabilistic matrix factorization model, rec-
ommending items that are both topically similar to the pre-
vious user’s preferences and authored by people who are
trusted by the user. Community-based systems show bet-
ter performance with respect to purely content-based and
collaborative ﬁltering methods. In our work we cannot use
community-based techniques since we do not have access to
the social graph of eBay users.

2.3 Social Networks and Purchase Behaviors
Some research has investigated the broader topic of how
social network inﬂuences users in their purchases. Bhatt et
al. [3] empirically demonstrate that a user’s friends exercise
“peer pressure”: if friends widely adopt a product, the user
is more likely to buy it. Guo et al. [11] study the trading
dynamics on the e-commerce social network Taobao. They
show that buyers are more likely to purchase from sellers
that friends in their network have already bought from (in-
formation passing). They prove that when a buyer has to
decide from which seller to buy a product, the social net-
work has a bigger inﬂuence on the decision than the sellers’
ratings and the price of the product. Similar ﬁndings are
found in [13, 14].

All these studies assume that the e-commerce site and
the social network are integrated into one platform (e.g.
Taobao), or that the e-commerce site has holistic access to
the social network. To the best of our knowledge, our work
is the ﬁrst to focus on a more practical and common sce-
nario, where the system (e.g. e-commerce companies such
as Amazon and eBay) has limited access to social network
information.

Table 1: Example of User Information.

Name
Gender
Age group
Facebook likes
(Category)

eBay purchases
(Meta-category)

Anonymous
Male
35-44
Beatles (Musician/band)
iPhone 5 (Electronics)
Starbucks (Food/beverage)
Walt Disney Studios (Movie)
iPhone 4S (Electronics)
Beatles T-shirt (Clothing)
Beatles Mug (Collectibles)

Table 2: Statistics of Our Dataset.

Users
Facebook categories
Facebook pages
Facebook likes
eBay categories
eBay purchases

13,619
214
1,373,984
4,165,690
35
628,753

3. FACEBOOK-EBAY DATASET

The dataset we use in this study comes from a database of
eBay’s “Facebook connect” users. It contains a random sam-
ple of 13,619 anonymized eBay users who connected to Face-
book between June and August 2012. We excluded users
under 18 years of age and those who have no Facebook likes
or have not made any purchase on eBay in 2012. For each
user, the dataset stores the following information:

• Basic demographic information obtained from Face-

book, including age and gender;

• Facebook likes and their categories;
• A list of items purchased on eBay from January to

August 2012 (item name and category).

An example of user information collected in our dataset

is presented in Table 1.

Basic statistics of our dataset are reported in Table 2.
Figure 1 reports the distribution of gender and age groups
in our dataset. We notice a prevalence of women (60% of all
users) and people aged between 25 and 44 (55% of all users).
In Section 5 we will explore if users in diﬀerent demographic
groups have distinctive purchase behaviors.

Figure 2 reports the distribution of Facebook likes for
users, i.e., it indicates how many users have liked a given
number of pages. The function is approximately power law
with only a few outlier ﬂuctuations, meaning that most users
like few Facebook pages, and few users like many pages (the
median is 152 likes). While not surprising, this indicates
that our task is inherently hard:
for most users we have
to rely on scarce Facebook information for predicting their
purchase behaviors.

Figure 3 reports the distribution of likes for Facebook
pages, i.e., it indicates how many pages have a given number
of likes. The function follows a perfect power law, showing
that the majority of Facebook pages have few likes and only
a few pages receive many likes (the median is 1 like). The
fact that users’ likes are so sparse poses a great challenge for
our prediction task when likes are used as features.

1523Figure 1: Distribution of user demographics.

Figure 3: Distribution of likes for pages.

Figure 2: Distribution of likes for users.

As regards user behaviors on eBay, the distribution of
purchased items is also power law, as shown in Figure 4,
indicating that most users tend to buy a limited number of
items.

Figure 5 reports the distribution of purchases by meta-
category. The distribution is highly skewed: more than 50%
of all purchases come from the top ﬁve meta-categories. The
Clothing, Shoes & Accessories category alone accounts for
17.5% of all purchases.
In the context of our study this
means that a system that selects the most popular meta-
categories as a prediction of where a user will buy, would
achieve a good degree of accuracy. We will have more on this
in the experimental section. The median value of purchases
per category is 8,316; the average is 17,964.

4. FOCUS ON PURCHASES AND LIKES

The ﬁrst important question that we want to answer in
this study is: are users focused when they buy online? One
extreme hypothesis is that a user is completely unfocused,
i.e., the user likes to buy randomly across categories. On
the other end, the user may have a few favorite categories
from which majority purchases are made.

The former hypothesis depicts a chaotic world where it is
impossible to predict user behaviors and provide recommen-
dations. In the context of this paper, we hope our world to
be more organized than this.

To answer the above question, let us represent with P (u)k
the ranked probability with which a user u buys from the kth
favorite category. This rank is obtained by ﬁrst estimating
the probability P (u, e) of a user u buying in each category
e, and by successively ranking the probabilities:

Figure 4: Distribution of purchases for users.

P (u, e) =

purc(u, e)
purc(u, E)

(1)

where purc(u, e) is the number of purchases of u in category
e, and E is the set of all 35 eBay meta-categories. For ex-
ample if a user buys 3 items from one category and 2 from
another, we have: P (u)1 = 0.6 and P (u)2 = 0.4.

To have an estimation of purchase focus we average the
P (u)k across all users U . We thus obtain the probability
distribution for the event of an average user buying in the
top k ranked category:

|U| ·(cid:88)

1

u∈U

P (U )k =

P (u)k

(2)

The probability mass function for the distribution is re-
ported in Figure 6, where categories are ordered by rank
k.

The hypothesis of a chaotic world where a user buys ran-
domly from diﬀerent categories would be proved if the dis-
tribution was ﬁtted by a uniform distribution. To check the
ﬁt, we apply the Kolmogorov-Smirnov (K-S) goodness-of-ﬁt
test. The result of the test shows that the hypothesis is
rejected. As expected, users do not buy randomly.

We repeat the K-S test to check what continuous distri-
bution best approximates the purchase distribution. The
best ﬁt is provided by a Gamma distribution (Γ(0.625, 1.322)
with the D-statistic of 0.19).

1524and purchases, i.e., do users purchase what they like on
Facebook? If a correlation exists we could leverage Face-
book likes to predict what users will likely purchase. We
will answer this question in Section 6.

5. DEMOGRAPHIC DIFFERENCES

This section and the following explore possible correla-
tions between Facebook information and eBay purchases.
In Section 7 we will leverage these correlations to build al-
gorithms for predicting purchase behaviors. We start by fo-
cusing on demographic information available on Facebook,
and later explore the use of the list of liked pages.

A large body of work has studied demographic distinc-
tions in the area of e-commerce. Among others, Garbarino
and Strahilevitz [10] and Chiu et al. [7] show that women
have a signiﬁcantly higher sensitivity to risk when buying on-
line. Kau et al. [20] indicate that “on-oﬀ shoppers” (people
who explore online but buy oﬄine) are prevalently teenagers;
“comparative shoppers” (people comparing product features
before buying) tend to be males in their twenties; oﬄine
shoppers are mostly people over 40. Diﬀerences in product
adoption across diﬀerent demographics have been observed,
among others, in online movie rentals [21], music downloads
and mobile data services [32], though these studies were all
limited either in scope or in the size of the data.

Building on previous work, we ﬁrst analyze if women and
men tend to buy from diﬀerent eBay meta-categories.
In
order to do so, we compute for both genders the percentage
of users who buy in each category. For example about 70%
of women in our dataset buy items from the Clothing, Shoes
& Accessories category, while only 45% of men do so.

For each category, we carry out a t-test between women
and men to verify if the diﬀerence in percentage is statisti-
cally signiﬁcant. The results of the test show that women
buy signiﬁcantly more than men in 10 categories with a sta-
tistical signiﬁcance of p = 0.99. The most female-polarized
categories are Jewelry & Watches, Crafts, and Clothing,
Shoes & Accessories. Men buy signiﬁcantly more than women
in 16 categories, with the most polarized being Toys & Hob-
bies, Collectibles and Sports Memorabilia. For the remaining
9 eBay meta-categories we do not observe any signiﬁcant dif-
ference. These results show that purchase behavior strongly
varies across genders.

Diﬀerences across age groups are less strong. For example,
in only 10 categories is there a signiﬁcant diﬀerence between
age groups 25-34 and 45-54.
In general we observe that
young people (25-34) tend to be prevalent in Fashion, while
older people (45+) are prevalent in Collectibles and Books.
The overall demographic study suggests that gender and
age are important signals for predicting the purchase behav-
iors of social media users. In the experimental section we
will quantitatively analyze their eﬀective value.

For the sake of completeness we also study gender and age
diﬀerences on Facebook. Similarly to purchase behaviors, we
note that diﬀerent demographic segments tend to like diﬀer-
ent types of pages. Females are prevalent in liking Clothing
and Health/beauty pages, while males prevail in Electronics
and Sports. Young users like more Actors & Directors while
older people are prevalent in liking Politicians.

It is worth noting that these results refer to our dataset of
13K Facebook-connected eBay users, and may not generalize
to the general population of eBay users or to the whole e-
commerce spectrum.

Figure 5: Number of purchases in all eBay meta-
categories.

Figure 6: Distribution of purchases in eBay meta-
categories.

The shape of the distribution indicates that users are very
focused in their purchase behaviors. Figure 6 shows that
more than 50% of the times an average user buys from the
ﬁrst preferred category and 20% of the times from the second
preferred category. The top 3 categories collectively account
for about 85% of a user’s purchases.

Another important question is: do users express speciﬁc
interests on Facebook, i.e., do they like speciﬁc categories of
pages? Similarly to what we do for eBay categories, we an-
swer this question by checking the hypothesis that Facebook
users like pages from random Facebook categories.

We build the probability distribution for the event of an
average user liking a Facebook category f using the same
procedure used for eBay categories but replacing e with f .
The mass function (not reported for space limitation) ﬁts
a Gamma distribution that is less steep than the Gamma
approximating eBay categories. We again reject the chaotic
world hypothesis by running the K-S test on a uniform distri-
bution. On average a Facebook user’s most favorite category
accounts for 19% of all liked pages, the second about 11%.
Facebook likes spread out to more categories with respect
to eBay purchases, though users appear to be quite focused
also on Facebook.

Overall, the results provided in this section prove that
users express strong personal interests on Facebook and are
highly focused when purchasing online. One important ques-
tion remains open. Is there a correlation between interests

1525Table 3: Examples of Correlated Categories.
Facebook Category
eBay Category
χ
52.0
Computers/Tablets Computers/technology
51.9
Computers/Tablets
95.5
Music
67.1
Music
Travel
7.9
5.9
Travel
63.6
Jewelry & Watches
13.4
Jewelry & Watches Health/beauty
67.2
Cell Phones
Cell Phones
46.1

Software
Record label
Musical Instrument
Bags/luggage
Book Genre
Jewelry/watches

Telecommunication
Electronics

6. CORRELATION BETWEEN SOCIAL ME-

DIA INTERESTS AND PURCHASES

Figure 7: Percentage of eBay categories that have
a given number of highly correlated Facebook cate-
gories according to the χ2 statistic.

In this section we study the correlation between Facebook
categories and eBay meta-categories, and check if there are
Facebook categories that are highly predictive of eBay meta-
categories. For example we would expect that users who like
many F ashion pages are likely to buy items in the Clothing,
Shoes & Accessories meta-category.
Let us deﬁne two categorical variables F and E. F is
deﬁned on the sample space of users, and associates each
user to the set of Facebook categories that the user likes
at least once. E associates each user to the eBay meta-
categories from which the user has bought at least once.
We compute the correlation between Facebook and eBay
categories by applying the Pearson’s chi-square test [23] on E
and F. The chi-square test checks if the null-hypothesis that
two random variables are independent (i.e. not correlated)
is true or not. The result of our test is a strong rejection of
the null hypothesis with conﬁdence p = 0.95.

This result is encouragingly suggesting that the set of
Facebook categories may be predictive of purchase behav-
iors. However, the test is generic and does not directly indi-
cate which speciﬁc Facebook category f is highly correlated
to which eBay meta-category e.
We therefore compute the Pearson’s chi-square test on
single (e, f ) events (i.e., we test on a 2×2 contingency ta-
ble). Table 3 reports the obtained correlations for some eBay
meta-categories. For all the pairs reported in the table the
null hypothesis that they are independent is rejected with
conﬁdence p=0.99.

Figure 7 shows the percentage of eBay categories (y-axis)
that have a given number of highly correlated (either p=0.99
or p=0.95) Facebook categories (x-axis). As the ﬁgure shows
all eBay categories have at least one highly associated Face-
book category, while only 15% of eBay categories have 30 or
more correlated Facebook categories at p=0.99. The median
number of correlated Facebook categories across all eBay
categories at the p=0.99 level is 19. The median number of
correlated Facebook categories at the p=0.95 level is 35.

These results are very promising. The large number of
discovered correlations suggests that eBay categories may
be predicted by looking at the Facebook categories liked by
the user. However, some eBay categories are inherently hard
to predict. For example, Real Estate, Art and Everything
Else have respectively only 4, 5 and 6 correlated Facebook
categories. This may not be suﬃcient to correctly support a
predictive algorithm for these speciﬁc eBay meta-categories.
The reason for such low correlations is twofold. First, some

eBay categories correspond to concepts that are not pop-
ularly liked on Facebook (e.g. not many people like Real
Estate companies). Second, some categories are too broad
and vague to establish correlations (e.g. Everything Else and
Art).

7. PURCHASE BEHAVIOR PREDICTION
In previous sections we have shown that users have focused
behaviors when buying online. We have also shown that ba-
sic information from Facebook (namely demographics and
liked pages) have promising correlation with purchase be-
haviors.
In this section we explore if that information is
strong enough to predict purchase behaviors. Speciﬁcally,
we build and evaluate a variety of machine learning models
to solve the following ranking problem.
Problem Statement. Given a social media user u and a
set of features derived from the user’s social media account,
we aim at producing a ranked list of product categories from
a category set E, where higher rank is assigned to categories
that the user is more likely to buy from.
7.1 Experimental Setup

7.1.1 Gold Standard
As the gold standard dataset for the experiments we use
the 13,619 eBay users who connected to Facebook, as de-
scribed in Section 3. For each user u the gold standard
ranks categories by assigning to each category e the ranking
score:

gsRank(u, ei) =

(cid:80)

purc(u, ei)
e∈E purc(u, e)

(3)

(4)

establishing the rank :

ei (cid:31) ej ⇐⇒ gsRank(u, ei) > gsRank(u, ej)

Categories with the same ranking score are considered
ties. For example if a user buys 5 items in Music, 3 in
Crafts and 0 in Electronics, the gold-standard ranking for
the user will be : Music (cid:31) Crafts (cid:31) Electronics.

The ideal prediction algorithm should provide in output
for each user a category ranking equivalent to the gold stan-
dard.

15267.1.2 Evaluation Measures
To evaluate the prediction models we use the following

measures :

Normalized Discounted Cumulative Gain (NDCG).
For each user we deﬁne Discounted Cumulative Gain (DCG) [17]
at position k as:

where w(i) is the relevance weight of the category ranked in
position i by the algorithm. We set the relevance weight as
follows:

k(cid:88)

DCGk =

w(i)

log(i + 1)

i=1

(cid:80)

w(i) =

purc(ei)
e∈E purc(e)

(5)

(6)

(7)

where purc(ei) is the number of items bought by the user in
category ei. We also deﬁne IDCG (ideal DCG) at position
k as the DCG of the gold-standard at k. NDCG at position
k is deﬁned as DCGk
IDCGk

.

Precision at Rank k (Pk). Given a position k in the
predicted ranking for a given user, Pk is deﬁned as:

(cid:80)k

Pk =

i=1 B(ei)

k

where B(ei) equals 1 if the user bought at least one item
from category ei and zero otherwise. We compute Pk for
each position, until we reach the position at which the algo-
rithm has retrieved all categories with B(ei) = 1.

Note that we do not use any ranking correlation coeﬃcient
for our evaluation (e.g. Spearman or Kendall Tau). Given
that we are solving a ranking problem, this choice may seem
counterintuitive. However, in our case we are not interested
in computing how similar two rankings are as a whole, but
just in how good an algorithm is in catching the correct
categories as early as possible.
In this case, NDCG and
precision at rank are more reliable measures.

We evaluate our ranking models using 10-fold cross val-
idation in order to reliably compute statistical signiﬁcance
values. For each fold we use 90% of the users as training and
10% as testing. We compute the above measures for each
fold by averaging the measures over all testing users.
7.1.3 Baseline and Learning Models
Baseline. A reasonable system that ranks categories ac-
cording to their popularity, i.e., the number of users in the
training set who has bought from the category.

Supervised Mapping. We also experiment with a simple
supervised model. In the training phase, we build a bipartite
graph where the left side nodes are Facebook categories and
the right side nodes are eBay meta-categories. We draw an
edge between a Facebook category f and an eBay meta-
category e if there exists at least one user who likes a page
in f and have bought an item in e. The weight of the edge
is computed as:

w(f, e) = |f, e|

(8)
where |f, e| is the number of users who like at least one
In the testing phase,
page in f and have bought from e.

ranking score(cid:80)

for each user u and eBay meta-category e we compute the
w(f, e), where Fu is the set of Facebook
categories that user u likes at least once. The ranking score
is used to produce the output ranking for each user.

f∈Fu

Naive Bayes (NB) Classiﬁcation. We use a standard
Naive Bayes model which for each user-category pair pre-
dicts the probability that the user will purchase from the
category. The algorithm returns the ranked list of categories
for each user.

Logistic Regression (LR). We use LibLinear [9] to build
a regression model for each eBay meta-category e, for a to-
tal of 35 models. For training, a user u is represented by a
feature vector (features are described in Section 7.1.4), and
the label is the ranking score gsRank(u, e). During testing,
for each user we collect the predicted scores for each cate-
gory as produced by the 35 models, and rank the categories
accordingly. The L2 regularization parameter is optimized
on a subset of the training set.

Support Vector Machines (SVM) Classiﬁcation. We
use SVMlight [19] to build a SVM classiﬁcation model for
each eBay meta-category e. For training, positive examples
are users who buy at least one item in e. An equal number of
random negative examples is provided. During testing, for
each unknown user SVM returns a conﬁdence score [19] that
we use for ranking3. SVM parameters are chosen by grid
search on a subset of the training sets. We report results
for a Radial Basic Function (RBF) kernel. Results for the
linear kernel are comparable to or below RBF.

7.1.4 Experimented Features
We apply all our machine learning algorithms (Naive Bayes,
Logistic Regression, and SVM classiﬁcation) using various
feature families. We group features in the following four
families.

Demographics (D). We have shown in Section 5 that dif-
ferent gender and age groups tend to buy in speciﬁc eBay
categories.
It is therefore natural to use the demographic
information as features for the learning algorithms.

We use a total of eight binary features to represent each
gender (male or female) and age group (18-24, 25-34, 35-44,
45-54, 55-64, 65+), where the feature value is 1 if the user
is of a given gender/age group, 0 otherwise.

Facebook Categories (F). This feature family includes
214 features, one for each Facebook category in the dataset.
For each user u and Facebook category f the feature value
is computed using TF-IDF [22] as follows:

tf idf (u, f ) =

like(u, f )

maxfi∈F like(u, fi)

· log

|U|

|(U, f )|

(9)

where like(u, f )is the number of page likes by user u in cat-
egory f , and |(U, f )| is the number of users who like at least
one page in category f .

3We also experimented with SVMrank, as it appears to be a
natural choice for ranking problems. However, the algorithm
did not perform well in our experiment, probably due to the
peculiar size of the problem (many users, few categories)
and the lack of category-based features. We omit SVMrank
results for space reasons.

1527Facebook Likes (L). In addition to Facebook categories,
we also experiment with features derived directly from the
liked pages. The intuition is that category features may be
too generic to capture useful correlations with the eBay cat-
egories that need to be predicted; or even worse, there may
be no Facebook categories predictive of an eBay category.
In such cases, page-level features may help. The values of
these features is computed similarly to Facebook categories,
i.e., by computing the tf idf between users and likes.

This feature family includes all the 1.3 million pages liked
by users in our dataset. Since the number of irrelevant fea-
tures may be high, we perform feature selection before feed-
ing the feature vectors to the machine learning algorithms.
The feature selection strategy we use is Information Gain,
since it has proved to be eﬀective in many learning tasks,
e.g.
Information Gain computes
the number of bits of information obtained for the predic-
tion task from a new feature. The information gain of a like
l is formally deﬁned as follows:

text categorization [35].

IG(l) = −

P (ei) log P (ei)

|E|(cid:88)

l(cid:88)
|E|(cid:88)

i=|E|

i=1

+P (l)

+P (l)

P (ei|l) log P (ei|l)

P (ei|l) log P (ei|l).

(10)

i=1

where |E| is the number of eBay categories; P (ei) is ap-
proximated by the fraction of training users who buy from
category ei and P (l) by the fraction of users who like l;
P (ei|l) is approximated by the fraction of users who like l
and also buy from category ei; and P (l) is approximated by
the fraction of users who do not like l.

For each unique like in our dataset, we compute its in-
formation gain and remove all likes whose information gain
is less than a pre-deﬁned threshold (5% of maximum IG).
The underlying reasoning is that likes with high informa-
tion gain are more useful for category prediction. Hence,
the quality of a like feature is proportional to its informa-
tion gain score, i.e., the higher the IG(l) score, the better the
feature is. Each user is represented using a feature vector of
tf idf values of top likes.

Using the eBay category Clothing, Shoes & Accessories
as an example, the top 10 Facebook likes ranked by IG
are: Sephora, Victoria’s Secret, Victoria’s Secret Pink, Bath
& Body Works, JustFab, Macy’s, Coach, ShoeDazzle, eBay
Fashion, MAC Cosmetics. As we can see, the top likes are
highly related to the Clothing, Shoes & Accessories category.

Facebook n-grams (N). We also experiment with n-grams
(n=1,2,3) derived from individual Facebook page names, e.g.
for the Facebook page Boston Running Club we will create
a set of candidate n-grams: {boston, running, club, boston
running, running club, boston running club}. Since we have
1.3 million Facebook pages, the number of derived n-grams
will be even larger. We therefore perform feature selection
also in this case, to choose the most informative unigrams,
bigrams and trigrams. Each user is represented using a fea-
ture vector of tf idf values of top n-grams.

Figure 8: N DCGk distributions of algorithms using
all four feature families.

7.2 Experimental Results

7.2.1 Algorithms
Table 4 reports the results of diﬀerent algorithms using
the complete set of features (demographics, Facebook cate-
gories, likes and n-grams) with feature selection. Figure 8
reports the trend of NDCG at diﬀerent rank levels, for all
the experimented algorithms.

Logistic Regression and SVM signiﬁcantly outperform4
the baseline system at all rank levels in both precision and
NDCG. The Mapping system and Naive Bayes show signif-
icantly lower accuracy.

In general the Baseline system has good performance.
Predicting meta-categories by simply ranking by popular-
ity proves to be a hard baseline to beat, as we would have
expected from the statistics reported in Figure 5.

The Mapping algorithm performs slightly better than Base-
line, but without statistical signiﬁcance. Overall, the perfor-
mances of the two algorithms are very similar. In order to
better understand the reason for this behavior, we measure
the similarity of the ranking produced by the two algorithms.
We do this by computing the Jaccard similarity coeﬃcient
J on the set of top 7 ranked categories5. We obtain J=0.74,
i.e., on average Baseline and Mapping share 5 out of the top
7 predicted categories. The reason for this high correlation
is that the weight in Equation 8 promotes eBay categories
that are very popular among users, similarly to what Base-
line does.

Naive Bayes is the worst performing algorithm, showing
performance below or very close to the baseline. A possible
explanation is that Naive Bayes assumes feature indepen-
dence, while the features derived from social media proﬁles
are not necessarily independent of one another. For example,
the category Sports and Sport Teams are highly dependent
on each other. The Jaccard coeﬃcient between Naive Bayes
and Baseline is J = 0.52, showing that the Naive Bayes
system is mildly correlated to Baseline, but not as much as
Mapping.

The top performing systems, Logistic Regression and SVM,
are far apart from all others. The good performance of SVM

4We calculate the 95% conﬁdence interval for each evalu-
ation measure using the sample obtained from the 10-fold
cross validation. If the conﬁdence intervals for two samples
do not overlap, then there is a signiﬁcant diﬀerence.
5On average the users in our dataset buy from 7 eBay meta-
categories.

1528Table 4: Experimental Results of Diﬀerent Algorithms Using All Feature Families.

Algorithm P1

Baseline
Mapping

0.668
0.668
NB 0.643
LR 0.733†
SVM 0.725†

P2
0.547
0.571
0.560
0.655†
0.653†

0.709
0.728
0.701
0.785†
0.782†
† indicates statistical signiﬁcance at 0.95 level with respect to Baseline.

NDCG1 NDCG2 NDCG3 NDCG5 NDCG7
0.668
0.668
0.643
0.733†
0.725†

P3
0.513
0.524
0.502
0.628†
0.622†

P5
0.454
0.494
0.477
0.582†
0.570†

P7
0.451
0.489
0.469
0.565†
0.530†

0.694
0.721
0.690
0.784†
0.780†

0.701
0.704
0.698
0.770†
0.768†

0.680
0.696
0.688
0.759†
0.752†

is expected. A large volume of previous work has already
shown its superior classiﬁcation power with respect to Naive
Bayes and other basic approaches. As for the good perfor-
mance of Logistic Regression, it indicates that using a regres-
sion approach to purchase prediction is a viable, promising
direction.

Overall, the results suggest that SVM and Logistic Re-
gression make a much better use of the social features than
Mapping and Naive Bayes. These two latter systems ap-
pear to be more inﬂuenced by the strong meta-category prior
probabilities (Figure 5) than by the features themselves.

7.2.2 Feature Analysis
In the previous section we experimented with diﬀerent al-
gorithms using the full set of features: demographics, Face-
book categories, likes and n-grams. In this section we re-
port experimental results for our best performing algorithm,
Logistic Regression, with the diﬀerent feature families de-
scribed in Section 7.1.4, both in isolation and in combina-
tion, in order to analyze how they contribute to the overall
task6.

Table 5 summarizes experimental results for the diﬀerent

feature families.

All feature families taken in isolation outperform the base-
line (row 2-5 of Table 5). Demographic features (D) show
the smallest improvement. However, results still indicate
that simple demographic information easily available on so-
cial media, such as age and gender, can help signiﬁcantly in
the purchase prediction task. This is particularly important
for those e-commerce applications that do not request social
media users to share the complete list of likes.

All other individual feature families, i.e., Facebook cate-
gories (F ), likes (L) and n-grams (N), signiﬁcantly outper-
form D features. This is not surprising because these feature
families provide much richer and more relevant information
with respect to age and gender. Intuitively, it may often be
the case that D features are subsumed by F , L and N . As
a matter of fact, we showed at the end of Section 5 that the
Facebook categories preferred by a user are usually corre-
lated to the user’s gender and age group.

Within the four individual feature families, F performs
the best, indicating that social media proﬁles at the cate-
gory level convey enough information for predicting users’
purchase behaviors on e-commerce sites. However the small
diﬀerence in performance of F with respect to L and N also
suggests that F , L, and N mostly convey the same infor-
mation. From one side this is expected, since all these three
feature families are generated from the same source (the list

6Logistic Regression performed better or comparably to
other algorithms in all feature combinations. We therefore
use only Logistic Regression to illustrate how diﬀerent fea-
ture families perform in the prediction task.

of users’ likes). From the other side, we would have ex-
pected L and N to slightly outperform F , since they carry
more ﬁne-grained information. A closer analysis of the L
and N feature families reveals that these features are of-
ten too sparse, thus limiting their prediction power. On the
contrary, F features are general enough to provide general-
ization power across users. We leave as a future work the
exploration of “middle-ground” features that have a degree
of generalization in between F and L, such as clusters of
likes automatically discovered using topic model techniques
or clustering algorithms.

When the best individual feature family F is combined
with other feature families (rows 6-12), we see a small addi-
tional gain in prediction quality. For example, when Face-
book categories and likes are combined, P1 goes up from
0.708 for F and 0.706 for L to 0.718. In general, the more
feature families we use, the greater the gain in prediction
quality. However, the gain in performance is very small.
As already outlined in the previous paragraph, L and N
come from the same source of F but have sparsity problems.
Therefore, they do not carry new relevant information with
respect to F .

It is ﬁnally worth mentioning that the dimensional space
of Facebook likes and n-grams is much larger than that of
Facebook categories. Hence, when computational cost is
concerned, Facebook categories are more favorable.

Feature Selection. All results reported so far use Infor-
mation Gain for selecting top likes and n-grams. To check
the eﬀect of feature selection, we run Naive Bayes and Logis-
tic Regression on the whole set of features but without any
feature selection7. Results show that both Naive Bayes and
Logistic Regression perform worse when feature selection is
not performed. For example, P1 for Naive Bayes goes from
0.643 with feature selection down to 0.376 without feature
selection and P2 goes from 0.560 down to 0.392.

8. CONCLUSIONS

In this paper we study the relations and interactions be-
tween social media proﬁles and purchase behaviors on e-
commerce websites. We demonstrate that there are signiﬁ-
cant correlations between social media information and on-
line purchases. We also develop machine learning algorithms
that use diﬀerent feature families derived from Facebook
proﬁles for solving the task of purchase behavior prediction
in a “cold start” setting. Results on a large dataset of eBay
users who connected to Facebook show that purchase be-
haviors can be successfully predicted using social media in-
formation alone.

7Running SVM with RBF kernel without feature selection
would be computationally unfeasible.

1529Table 5: Experimental Results of Logistic Regression Using Isolate and Combined Feature Families.

Feature Sets
Baseline

P1
0.668
D 0.670
0.708
F
L
0.706
N 0.705
F + D 0.715
F + L
0.718
F + N 0.717
F + D + L
0.723
F + D + N 0.722
F + L + N 0.729
F +D+L+N 0.733

P2
0.547
0.593
0.652
0.647
0.636
0.649
0.657
0.655
0.653
0.657
0.656
0.655

P3
0.513
0.565
0.621
0.613
0.605
0.623
0.625
0.623
0.634
0.624
0.629
0.628

P4
0.454
0.534
0.572
0.568
0.563
0.575
0.576
0.578
0.586
0.577
0.581
0.582

P5
0.451
0.504
0.549
0.538
0.533
0.553
0.555
0.552
0.559
0.558
0.563
0.565

NDCG1 NDCG2 NDCG3 NDCG5 NDCG7
0.668
0.670
0.708
0.706
0.705
0.715
0.718
0.717
0.723
0.721
0.729
0.733

0.680
0.710
0.736
0.733
0.732
0.753
0.755
0.752
0.756
0.758
0.750
0.759

0.694
0.728
0.761
0.759
0.757
0.766
0.770
0.769
0.775
0.773
0.780
0.784

0.709
0.735
0.765
0.761
0.760
0.770
0.775
0.776
0.782
0.780
0.778
0.785

0.701
0.721
0.749
0.748
0.745
0.765
0.768
0.766
0.771
0.770
0.763
0.770

D: Demographics; F : Facebook categories; L: Top Facebook likes; N : Top n-grams(n=1,2,3)

In the future we will explore several research directions,

including the following:

• We will go a step further and apply our system to pre-
dict behaviors at the subcategory level, e.g., Women’s
Handbags instead of the more generic parent category
Clothing, Shoes & Accessories. We will go even deeper
to verify the feasibility of predicting purchases directly
at the product level: this would be considered as a full-
ﬂedge recommender system.

• We will extend our feature sets to include other types
of features, such as clusters of likes automatically in-
ferred using topic models, and the likes of the user’s
friends. Even though eBay does not ask users to share
the likes of their friends for privacy reasons, these may
be provided in other contexts, e.g., at Amazon.com.
• We will experiment with more sophisticated models
integrating social graph information, when available.
• We will explore if and how Facebook information can
improve existing product recommendation systems that
rely on purchase history.

• We will integrate our prediction models into existing
products: to oﬀer, for example, a more personalized
experience for social media users when they visit an e-
commerce website; or to automatically redirect users
to the vertical of interest when they access the website.

To the best of our knowledge our study is the ﬁrst at-
tempt to predict e-commerce behaviors using only social me-
dia information. It is our hope that it will help and inspire
e-commerce companies to develop better and new recom-
mendation engines that leverage social media features in a
time when the issue of monetizing social media information
is being more and more debated.

9. ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

We are thankful to our colleague Pruth Leelaluckanakul
for providing the users’ Facebook data. We are also grateful
to the authors of LibLinear and SVMlight for providing great
tools for our study.

10. REFERENCES
[1] F. Abel, Q. Gao, G.-J. Houben, and K. Tao.

Analyzing temporal dynamics in twitter proﬁles for
personalized recommendations in the social web. In
WebSci’11 Conference Proceedings, 2011.

[2] S. Aciar, D. Zhang, S. Simoﬀ, and J. Debenham.
Recommender system based on consumer product
reviews. In WI’06 Conference Proceedings, pages
719–723, 2006.

[3] R. Bhatt, V. Chaoji, and R. Parekh. Predicting

product adoption in large-scale social networks. In
CIKM’10 Conference Proceedings, 2010.

[4] J. S. Breese, D. Heckerman, and C. Kadie. Empirical

analysis of predictive algorithms for collaborative
ﬁltering. In Proceedings of the 14th Conference on
Uncertainty in Artiﬁcial Intelligence, 1998.

[5] R. Burke. Hybrid recommender systems: Survey and

experiments. User Modeling and User-Adapted
Interation, 12(4):331–370, 2002.

[6] J. Chen, R. Nairn, L. Nelson, M. Bernstein, and

E. Chi. Short and tweet: experiments on
recommending content from information streams. In
CHI’10 Conference Proceedings, 2010.

[7] Y.-B. Chiu, C.-P. Lin, and L.-L. Tang. Gender diﬀers:

assessing a model of online purchase intentions in
e-tail service. International Journal of Service
Industry Management, 16(5):416–435, 2005.

[8] M. D. Ekstrand, J. T. Riedl, and J. A. Konstan.

Collaborative ﬁltering recommender systems.
Foundations and Trends in Human-Computer
Interaction, 4(2), 2011.

[9] R.-E. Fan, K.-W. Chang, C.-J. Hsieh, X.-R. Wang,

and C.-J. Lin. LIBLINEAR: A library for large linear
classiﬁcation. Journal of Machine Learning Research,
9:1871–1874, 2008.

[10] E. Garbarino and M. Strahilevitz. Gender diﬀerences

in the perceived risk of buying online and the eﬀects of
receiving a site recommendation. Journal of Business
Research, 57(7):768–775, 2004.

[11] S. Guo, M. Wang, and J. Leskovec. The role of social

networks in online shopping: information passing,
price of trust, and consumer choice. In ACM EC’11
Conference Proceeding, pages 157–166, 2011.

1530[12] J. Hannon, M. Bennett, and B. Smyth. Recommending
twitter users to follow using content and collaborative
ﬁltering approaches. In ACM RecSys’10 Conference
Proceedings, pages 199–206, Barcelona, Spain, 2010.
[13] S. Hill, F. Provost, and C. Volinsky. Network-based
marketing: Identifying likely adopters via consumer
networks. Statistical Science, 21(2):256–276, 2006.

[14] R. Iyengar, S. Han, and S. Gupta. Do friends inﬂuence

purchases in a social network? Working paper,
Harvard Business School, 2009.

[15] M. Jamali and M. Ester. Trustwalker: a random walk

model for combining trust-based and item-based
recommendation. In KDD’09 Conference Proceedings,
pages 397–406, 2009.

[16] D. Jannach. Recommender Systems : an Introduction.

Cambridge University Press, 2011.

[17] K. J¨arvelin and J. Kek¨al¨ainen. Cumulated gain-based

evaluation of IR techniques. ACM Transactions on
Information Systems, 20(4):422–446, 2002.

[18] M. Jiang, P. Cui, R. Liu, Q. Yang, F. Wang, W. Zhu,

and S. Yang. Social contextual recommendation. In
KDD’12 Conference Proceedings, pages 45–54, 2012.

[19] T. Joachims. Learning to Classify Text Using Support

Vector Machines. Dissertation. Kluwer, 2002.

[20] A. K. Kau, Y. E. Tang, and S. Ghose. Typology of

online shoppers. Journal of Consumer Marketing,
20(2):139–156, 2003.

[21] Y. Koren, R. Bell, and C. Volinsky. Matrix

factorization techniques for recommender systems.
Computer, 42(8):30–37, 2009.

[22] C. D. Manning, P. Raghavan, and H. Sch¨utze.

Introduction to Information Retrieval. Cambridge
University Press, 2008.

[23] M. Nikulin. Chi-squared test for normality. In

[24] M. Pennacchiotti and S. Gurumurthy. Investigating

topic models for social media user recommendation. In
WWW’11 Conference Proceedings, 2011.

[25] D. Ramage, S. Dumais, , and D. Liebling.

Characterizing microblogs with topic models. In AAAI
ICWSM’10 Conference Proceedings, 2010.

[26] P. Resnick and H. R. Varian. Recommender systems.

Special Issue of the Communications of the ACM,
40(3), 1997.

[27] F. Ricci, L. Rokach, B. Shapira, and P. B. Kantor.

Recommender systems handbook. Media,
54(3):217–253, 2011.

[28] B. Sarwar, G. Karypis, J. Konstan, and J. Riedl.

Analysis of recommendation algorithms for
e-commerce. In EC’00 Conference Proceedings, 2000.

[29] B. Sarwar, G. Karypis, J. Konstan, and J. Riedl.

Item-based collaborative ﬁltering recommendation
algorithms. In WWW’01 Conference Proceeding, 2001.

[30] J. Schafer, J. Konstan, and J. Riedi. Recommender
systems in e-commerce. In ACM EC’99 Conference
Proceedings, 1999.

[31] S. Sen, J. Vig, and J. Riedl. Tagommenders:

connecting users to items through tags. In WWW’09
Conference Proceedings, pages 671–680, 2009.

[32] W. Shi, P. Wu, W. Zhou, and J. Chen. Gender
diﬀerences in purchase intention on mobile data
services. In IEEE CSO’09 Conference Proceedings,
pages 773–777, 2009.

[33] R. T. A. Wietsma and F. Ricci. Product reviews in

mobile decision aid systems. In Proceedings of the
PERMID, pages 15–18, Munich, Germany, 2005.

[34] R. Yan, M. Lapata, and X. Li. Tweet recommendation

with graph co-ranking. In ACL’12 Conference
Proceedings, volume 1, 2012.

Proceedings of the International Vilnius Conference on
Probability Theory and Mathematical Statistics, pages
119–122, 1973.

[35] Y. Yang and J. O. Pedersen. A Comparative Study on
Feature Selection in Text Categorization. In ICML’97
Conference Proceedings, Nashville, TN, 1997.

1531