Steering User Behavior with Badges

Ashton Anderson
Stanford University

ashton@cs.stanford.edu

Daniel Huttenlocher

Cornell University

{dph, kleinber}@cs.cornell.edu

jure@cs.stanford.edu

Jon Kleinberg
Cornell University

Jure Leskovec
Stanford University

ABSTRACT
An increasingly common feature of online communities and social
media sites is a mechanism for rewarding user achievements based
on a system of badges. Badges are given to users for particular
contributions to a site, such as performing a certain number of ac-
tions of a given type. They have been employed in many domains,
including news sites like the Hufﬁngton Post, educational sites like
Khan Academy, and knowledge-creation sites like Wikipedia and
Stack Overﬂow. At the most basic level, badges serve as a sum-
mary of a user’s key accomplishments; however, experience with
these sites also shows that users will put in non-trivial amounts of
work to achieve particular badges, and as such, badges can act as
powerful incentives. Thus far, however, the incentive structures
created by badges have not been well understood, making it difﬁ-
cult to deploy badges with an eye toward the incentives they are
likely to create.

In this paper, we study how badges can inﬂuence and steer user
behavior on a site—leading both to increased participation and to
changes in the mix of activities a user pursues on the site. We intro-
duce a formal model for reasoning about user behavior in the pres-
ence of badges, and in particular for analyzing the ways in which
badges can steer users to change their behavior. To evaluate the
main predictions of our model, we study the use of badges and their
effects on the widely used Stack Overﬂow question-answering site,
and ﬁnd evidence that their badges steer behavior in ways closely
consistent with the predictions of our model. Finally, we inves-
tigate the problem of how to optimally place badges in order to
induce particular user behaviors. Several robust design principles
emerge from our framework that could potentially aid in the design
of incentives for a broad range of sites.
Categories and Subject Descriptors: J.4 [Social and Behavioral
Sciences]: Economics.
General Terms: Algorithms, Economics, Theory.
Keywords: Badges, steering, badge placement problem.

1.

INTRODUCTION
Give me enough medals and I’ll win you any war.

—Napoleon

Designers of online communities and social media sites have in-
creasingly been making use of badges as a way to reward users
for their achievements. Badges have been employed across a wide
range of domains, from news sites like Hufﬁngton Post, where
users are recognized for contributing valued comments and being

Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference
Committee (IW3C2). IW3C2 reserves the right to provide a hyperlink
to the author’s site if the Material is used in electronic media.
WWW 2013, May 13–17, 2013, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
ACM 978-1-4503-2035-1/13/05.

well-connected; to education sites like Khan Academy, where users
are awarded badges for watching instructional videos and correctly
answering questions; to knowledge creation sites like Wikipedia
and Stack Overﬂow, where users are awarded for their contribu-
tions to the online community. The use of badges in these settings
invokes a much longer history of badge use in off-line domains: for
example, organizations like the Boy Scouts award (literal) badges
for proﬁciency at particular tasks, and airlines award elite status for
speciﬁc amounts of travel.

Badges play multiple roles in all these settings. First, they func-
tion as a credentialing system, summarizing the skills and achieve-
ments of the individuals who receive them. But they also work
powerfully as incentives; experience across many domains shows
that people will direct considerable amounts of effort in pursuit of
a badge. It is this incentive function of badges, and particularly
the ways these badge-based incentives can be used in online ap-
plications, that is the focus of our work here—the ways in which
badges can affect the extent and form of user participation in online
communities and social media sites.
Badges as Incentives. The question of user participation and
contribution in online domains is a broad topic that a number
of active lines of research have contributed to, including social-
psychological studies of user engagement [5, 6], incentives for ef-
fort and high-quality contribution in social media [12], mechanisms
for distributed online recruitment [2, 7, 13], and the design of con-
tests to encourage crowdsourced effort [8]. Different systems have
been used successfully in different settings.

Badges are in several respects simpler than some of these other
incentive mechanisms, lacking the direct competition of auctions
and leaderboards and the exchangeability of currency-like systems.
Despite their simplicity, however, in practice many social sites have
positioned badges as an important part of their incentive systems.
Furthermore, they appear to induce complex user behaviors that are
thus far not well understood. Understanding this complexity, and
developing principles for reasoning about how to use badges most
effectively, are key underlying motivations of the present research.
Perhaps the most basic way badges can affect user behavior is
by encouraging users to increase their overall level of participation.
But much of the richness and complexity of badges comes from
the fact that they are intrinsically based on a kind of multi-faceted
way of thinking, in the following sense. A site will generally have
many different types of activities that users can perform (the dif-
ferent dimensions of possible contributions to the site), and by cre-
ating badges that reward certain of these contributions at speciﬁc
levels, the site’s designers can attempt to “steer” a user’s activities
toward particular forms of contribution. For example, a question-
answering (Q&A) site may have a range of activities that include
asking questions, answering questions, up-voting and down-voting
questions and answers, and others. On a Q&A site where everyone

95wants to ask questions and few people want to answer them, intro-
ducing a badge for users who have contributed a certain number
of answers can steer the community toward contributing to this un-
derrepresented action type. Badges for voting can similarly try to
steer users toward providing enough feedback to maintain a useful
quality signal on the content.

In summary, badges provide a rich language for expressing in-
centives, but with little existing framework for reasoning about
their effects. Our work addresses a set of questions that can help
provide insight into badges and their use. In particular, a natural
ﬁrst question is: Do badges work? That is, can we ﬁnd concrete ev-
idence that badges increase site participation or steer users towards
taking actions they might not have taken otherwise? If badges do
have an effect on users, how can we model user behavior in the
presence of badges? And to the extent that designers can indeed
steer user behavior with badges, how should they deﬁne badges to
achieve the outcomes they want?
Overview of Results

Our work is based on this set of questions, and comprises three
different components. First, we develop a model for user behav-
ior in the presence of badges on a site with multiple types of ac-
tivities. Second, we evaluate our model on data from the popular
question-answering site Stack Overﬂow, and show that the main
qualitative predictions of the model match what we observe in the
aggregate user behavior on the real site. Third, we consider how a
site designer can use such a model to deﬁne badges with the goal
of achieving a desired pattern of behavior.
Theoretical Model of User Behavior. Given the discussion of
badges thus far, what are the basic ingredients we need in order
to deﬁne a model of user behavior with badges? Intuitively, we
would like to have a multi-dimensional space representing the pos-
sible types of actions on the site; users have a preferred mixture
of activities in this space, and introducing badges can induce them
to shift their mixture in particular ways. Our model brings these
features together in a natural way.

Since a key aspect of badges is the way in which different badges
reward different activities, we model the site as having n different
action types; as in our example of a Q&A site above, the action
types could correspond to asking a question, answering a ques-
tion, voting on a question or answer, and others. Users perform
actions, choosing from among these types; a user’s mix of actions
over his lifetime can thus be thought of as deﬁning a vector in an
n-dimensional space whose ith coordinate records the number of
actions of type i that he has taken.1 Each badge is deﬁned by spec-
ifying how many actions of each type must be performed in order
for it to be awarded; in this sense, each badge deﬁnes a “frontier”
in the space that the user’s vector must cross in order for the badge
to be awarded. We refer to this frontier as the badge boundary.

In order to talk about the incentives that badges create, we also
need a model of a user’s utility, which we represent in two com-
ponents. First, each user has a preferred mix of actions on the site,
corresponding to a distribution over the possible action types; in the
absence of badges, he would simply perform actions according to
this mixture by sampling from his distribution over possible action
types. Sampling action types from a different distribution incurs a
cost to the user, based on how far the distribution is from his pre-
ferred one. Second, a badge confers utility once it is awarded, and
so a user has an incentive to shift his distribution of activities some-
what in order to achieve the badge more quickly, which trades off
against the cost for deviating from the preferred distribution.

1Throughout this paper we use male pronouns to refer to users of a
site and female pronouns to refer to site designers.

The user’s behavior is thus determined by the solution to an
individual-level optimization problem, trading off the cost of shift-
ing his activity distribution against the value of the badge. We will
see that when this optimization is solved, the force of the incen-
tives from badges clearly emerges naturally: the user’s distribution
of actions is deﬂected in the direction of badges, and there is an
“acceleration” effect in which this deﬂection becomes stronger as
the user approaches a badge boundary.

Thus far the model captures how a badge can steer users toward
certain types of actions. At a higher level, a badge can also increase
the overall level of user participation on the site. While it may ini-
tially seem that these are two different phenomena—participation
level versus choice of actions on the site—we can unify them within
the model by representing the user’s off-site activities via a single
additional action type, corresponding to one extra dimension in the
space of possible actions. We refer to this additional action type as
the life-action, since it corresponds to the sum total of the user’s ac-
tivities in his life off the site; the user’s preferred distribution of ac-
tivities will include a probability associated with the life-action as
well. With this extended framework, we can ask about the effect of
a badge in two distinct respects: the extent to which it draws proba-
bility mass away from the life-action, thus increasing participation
on the site, and the extent to which is shifts probability mass be-
tween different site actions, thus steering behavior within the site.
Empirical Evaluation. After developing the model, we investigate
whether its qualitative predictions match the aggregate behavior we
see in a large-scale setting that makes strong use of badges. To
do this, we analyze the behavior of several million users on Stack
Overﬂow, a large and very active question-answering site. On Stack
Overﬂow, badges play a prominent role—they are displayed along-
side a user’s name wherever he posts on the site, and they are dis-
cussed extensively on Stack Overﬂow forums.

We ﬁnd that the main qualitative predictions of the model match

the behavior we observe on Stack Overﬂow in four key respects.

(i) If a certain level of activity of a particular type is rewarded by
a badge, users will increase their activity of this type as they
approach the level needed for the badge. This is the notion
of steering toward a badge boundary mentioned above.
(ii) Different badges produce different amounts of steering.
(iii) The extent of steering depends on how close the user is to the
badge boundary—an “acceleration” effect in which a user
steers particularly strongly toward a badge when they are
close to achieving it.

(iv) Steering involves both shifts in the mixture of actions the
user performs on the site, as well as in their overall level of
participation on the site.

What we ﬁnd promising about these results is that each of (i)-
(iv) arises naturally as a prediction of our modeling framework,
despite the fact that we did not “build in” any of them. Rather, the
model generates these behaviors by simply positing users who act
to maximize utility.
The Badge Placement Problem. Finally, having proposed a model
of user behavior in the presence of badges and showing that its
main predictions are consistent with empirical data, we return to the
model and explore it from the site designer’s perspective. Suppose
the site designer has a desired mixture of actions q—over the full
user population, she would like to see the action types performed
in the proportions represented by the distribution q. If the site de-
signer has the ability to deﬁne a ﬁxed number of badges, essentially
“placing” each one as a frontier in the space of actions, how should
she place the badges so that when users optimize their behavior, the
overall mixture of activities is as close to q as possible?

96We formalize and study this badge placement problem, analyz-
ing the way in which the site designer’s solution varies with the
properties of the underlying user population and with the desired
outcome. From this analysis we can abstract a number of high-
level design principles. First, the effectiveness of badges depends
signiﬁcantly on where they are placed, and the optimal location is
often surprisingly hard to reach. It is more important to preserve
a badge as an incentive over the course of the user’s career on the
site, even if it is far away for much of that time, than have it be
achieved too early. Second, if the site designer wants to use multi-
ple badges to reward the same type of action (e.g. one for a medium
level of contribution and another for a very high level), the model
indicates that it is more useful to spread them out and assign them
roughly equal value, rather than concentrating them close together
and effectively produce a single badge of greater value. At a qual-
itative level, these ﬁndings suggest the power of creating multiple
smaller rewards, relatively far off to preserve their incentive effects
over long periods of contributions.

Overall, these results are part of an effort to develop a principled,
tractable way of reasoning about badges and their effects on user
behavior, validated on evidence from large social sites, and provid-
ing a framework for using badges proactively to design incentives
that guide a user community toward a desired mix of behaviors.

2. A MODEL OF USER BEHAVIOR

We begin with our theoretical model of user behavior in the
presence of badges, following the principles outlined in Section 1.
Overall, our goal is to keep the model set-up as simple as possible
while still capturing the basic effect of badges as incentives.
2.1 Setting

To establish terminology, a designer controls a site in which
users take actions of different types. Although we talk about the
model in terms of user behavior on a Web site, in keeping with
our primary motivation, the model is formulated in terms general
enough to provide connections back to the off-line examples from
Section 1 as well. Moreover, even though we will describe the
model from a single user perspective note that our model naturally
allows for heterogeneous user populations.
Action types. If there are n possible kinds of actions on the site,
we declare the life-action, representing the user’s activities outside
the site, to be an (n + 1)st action type. The set of possible action
types is then denoted A = {A1, A2, . . . , An, An+1}, where An+1
is the life-action. For example, on a simple question-answering site
of the type discussed in the introduction, we might have n = 4,
with A1, A2, A3, and A4 corresponding, respectively, to asking a
question, answering a question, voting on a question, and voting on
an answer; and here A5 is the life-action.
User histories. A user’s history on the site will be represented
abstractly as a sequence of choices of action types (e.g., on a Q&A
site, the user ﬁrst asked two questions, then answered a question,
then voted on three answers, and so forth). In general, we will be
interested in a user’s cumulative number of actions taken so far, and
these can be represented by a single action vector a ∈ Rn+1 whose
ith coordinate ai is simply equal to the number of actions of type
i the user has taken over his history on the site (with coordinate
an+1 denoting the off-site life-action). We use ei to denote the
unit vector with a 1 in coordinate i and 0 elsewhere, so that when
a user with vector a performs an action of type i, the user’s new
vector is a + ei.
Badges and their boundaries. We focus on badges that are
awarded once the user has reached a certain level of cumulative
contribution—so a badge b is associated with the subset of possible

user action vectors a corresponding to contributions that warrant
the badge. This set of vectors is monotonic in the sense that if an
action vector a warrants the badge, and ˜a is coordinate-wise at least
as large as a (˜ai ≥ ai for all i), then ˜a also warrants the badge.
Note that badges can only be awarded for on-site activities but not
for the activity of the life-action. Thus, if b and ˜b differ only in
coordinate n + 1 (the life-action coordinate), then b warrants the
badge if and only if ˜b does.

We write Ib(a) for the indicator function specifying whether
vector a warrants badge b: Ib(a) = 1 if a warrants the badge,
and it is 0 otherwise. Often we will talk about a user reaching the
badge boundary for a badge b; the badge boundary is simply the set
of vectors at which the badge may be ﬁrst awarded. Concretely, the
boundary is the set of vectors a such that Ib(a) = 1 but for which
there exists a unit vector ei such that Ib(a − ei) = 0.
For example, a common type of badge simply rewards a certain
number of actions of a single ﬁxed type (e.g., answering at least a
certain total number of questions on a Q&A site); this would mean
that for some choice of action type i and a particular threshold k,
the badge is awarded to any user whose action vector a satisﬁes
ai ≥ k. The badge boundary here would be the hyperplane ai = k.
Utilities and incentives. Finally, we describe a model of the utility
a user derives from the site, so as to incorporate the idea that badges
produce incentives and thus steer behavior. A user’s utility has two
components: one from taking types of actions he naturally prefers,
and one from receiving badges. The tension between these two
components is what drives the behavior of the model.

To represent the user’s inherent utility from selecting actions, we
want a model based on the idea that the user has a preferred mix-
ture of activities (i.e., a preferred proportion in which to do things
on and off the site). We therefore say that a user has a ﬁxed “ideal”
distribution p over action types—in the absence of any other incen-
tives he samples from p in each step to determine his next action.
Basing selection on sampling rather than a sequence of ﬁxed de-
terministic choices leads to a model whose global structure is very
similar to what we would get from deterministic choice, but whose
local structure nicely “smooths out” some of the artifacts that would
arise at a local level from deterministic selection (for example strict
round-robin alternation and parity effects).

In the presence of badges, a user may choose a different mixture
of activities, but still has an interest in remaining close to his pre-
ferred distribution p. We thus give the user the ability to choose any
distribution x from which to sample the next action, and model the
user’s goal of staying close to his preferred mixture by saying that
he incurs a cost of g(x, p) for choosing x, where g(x, p) = 0
if and only if x = p, and g(·) is monotonic in the sense that
g(˜x, p) ≥ g(x, p) if ˜x − p is coordinate-wise at least as large
as x − p. Thus the higher the deviation of a user from his pre-
ferred actions, the higher the cost. (In our analysis, we will use
g(x, p) = (cid:107)x − p(cid:107)2
As we will see, a user may want to choose different distributions
in different states, based on his action vector so far. We will use xa
to denote the distribution chosen by the user when he is at action
vector a. If there were no badges, the user would choose xa = p
for every a, since g is uniquely minimized for this choice of xa.

2 for concreteness.)

Notice that in this scenario the preferred vector p doesn’t de-
pend on a, and hence the user would act the same regardless of
the sequence of actions he has taken so far. However our model
is very general, and can be easily generalized to incorporate richer
user utilities that may depend extensively on the user’s state. Two
examples include a user who: (a) wants to maintain the proportions
in the vector p globally over his entire lifetime (that is, he wants to
choose a distribution at a given vector a that tries to bring him back
toward a point where the proportion of action types performed so

97far is balanced according to the coordinates of p), and (b) values
badges differently depending on which other badges he has already
received—this could be incorporated into the value function V .

Next we consider the utility associated with badges. We use B
to denote the set of all badges on the site. A badge b ∈ B confers a
value Vb to a user in each step after he receives it. (Alternately, the
value of b could be conferred entirely in a “lump-sum payment” in
the step when the user receives b; this would lead to a model that
is formally equivalent, but expressing the value as being conferred
in each step after the badge is received is an easier formalism to
work with.) In keeping with the fact that badges produce genuine
incentives on the site under consideration, we treat the notion of a
badge’s value as a primitive in the model. The broader question of
what a badge’s value means is an interesting issue that we return to
in the discussion at the end of the paper.

In addition to the incentive to achieve a badge, we also want to
capture the idea that it is better to receive a badge sooner rather
than later. We do this by the standard approach of discounting the
future: we say that a user has a ﬁxed exogenous probability δ > 0
that he permanently leaves the system after each action, and write
θ = 1− δ for the corresponding probability that he survives to per-
form another step. The user ceases to receive utility once he leaves
the system. In this way, under a plan that involves receiving a badge
some distance into the future, the value of the badge is discounted
by the probability that he survives long enough in the system to
actually reach the badge.2 We emphasize that the parameter θ con-
trols an exogenous process by which the user leaves the system,
in the sense that it operates independently of the user’s choices.
There is a separate endogenous way for the user to stop performing
actions on the site, which is simply to choose a distribution x over
actions that places a probability mass of 1 on the life-action.

Intuitively, at a current vector a, a user therefore needs to choose
a distribution x so as to trade off between remaining close to p and
achieving badges more quickly. This is the trade-off that leads a
user to steer toward a badge boundary.
A user’s policy. Let us suppose that a user has decided, for each
possible action vector a, which distribution xa over next actions he
will use should he ﬁnd himself at vector a. We call this choice of
distributions X = {xa} the user’s policy. We can write the utility
the user in state a receives from policy xa, as follows.

(cid:88)

b∈B

n+1(cid:88)

i=1

U (xa) =

Ib(a)Vb + θ

xi
a · U (xa+ei ) − g(xa, p)

(1)

The ﬁrst sum on the right-hand side is the user’s value from all the
badges he holds at vector a. The second sum is the expected value
arising from the vector the user reaches after sampling according to
xa: with probability xi
a the user moves to a + ei, where he will use
distribution xa+ei and hence obtain utility U (xa+ei ). This second
sum is discounted by θ, since the user only reaches this next step
with probability θ. The third term is the cost from the difference
between the actual action distribution xa and the preferred p.
2.2 The User’s Optimization Problem

Having fully speciﬁed our setting, we can now ask how a user
will behave under the model in the presence of a set of badges B.
Formally, we will assume that the user chooses a policy X = {xa}
to maximize his utility U (x0) starting from the origin (i.e., before
performing any actions). As with any model of this form, the un-

2We focus on this basic form of discounting for simplicity; without
much modiﬁcation one can also formulate the model using more
sophisticated types of discounting of the kind developed in the be-
havioral economics literature [11], and the results in this case are
qualitatively unchanged.

derlying optimization problem is intended to represent an abstrac-
tion of a real user’s decision-making, when he trades off the terms
in Equation (1), balancing ﬁdelity to his preferred distribution p
against the long-range prospect of obtaining badges.

We note that the user’s optimization problem can be cast as the
optimum of a Markov decision process (MDP), but this observa-
tion doesn’t directly help us since MDPs can be computationally
expensive to solve even for instances with state sets and action sets
of moderate size, and our model here produces instances with a
countably inﬁnite state set and a continuum of possible actions. In
fact we will be able to develop an efﬁcient algorithm, but it requires
making use of the inherent structure of the problem as it arises from
our model, rather than invoking a general class of results.

For most of the section, we will focus on threshold badges,
which reward a certain number of actions of a particular type. Con-
cretely, a threshold badge can be described by a pair (k, i), specify-
ing that a user is awarded the badge as soon as he has taken at least
k actions of type Ai (that is, Ib(a) = 1 if and only if ai ≥ k). We
say that a threshold badge described by (k, i) targets dimension i.
In developing the algorithm, we focus on threshold badges that
target one or two dimensions; we will see that such badges illustrate
the range of principal behaviors that we subsequently observe in the
data as well. At the end of the section, we discuss the extension to
general badges.
One targeted dimension

From Equation (1), we see that the user’s utility at an action vec-
tor a depends on his utility at each of the vectors a + ei. We there-
fore approach the problem using dynamic programming, with the
vectors a as the states of the dynamic program. For simplicity, we
will consider the case n = 2, so there is one additional site action
plus the life-action, but the algorithm trivially extends to larger n.
If we want to set up the dynamic programming recurrence based
on Equation (1), then we need to initialize it. We must do this care-
fully, since each state depends on a state associated with a vector
of larger norm. We handle this via the following two observations.
First, note that when the user takes his kth action of type A1 he
achieves the badge, and after this there is no further badge utility to
be gained. Hence, for any state a that is past the badge boundary,
the utility from xa depends entirely on the cost g(xa, p), and so in
the optimal policy we have xa = p for all such states. Second, if a
and ˜a have the same coordinate in dimension 1, then a sequence of
actions starting at a crosses the badge boundary if and only if the
same sequence starting at ˜a crosses the badge boundary. Thus, we
effectively have a one-dimensional problem, in which the value of
coordinate 1 in the current vector is the only variable that matters.
The utility function U (·) can therefore be expressed simply as a
function of a1, the number of A1 actions the user has taken. Abus-
ing notation slightly to write U in terms of both vectors and the
coordinate in this one targeted dimension, we have

3(cid:88)

j=1

U (a1) = θ

= θ · [x1

xj
a · U (xa+ej ) − g(xa, p)
a U (xa+e1 ) + x2

a U (xa) + x3

a U (xa)] − g(xa, p)

and then solving for U (a1) = U (xa) we have

U (a1) =

θ · x1

a · U (xa+e1 ) − g(xa, p)

1 − θ(x2

a + x3
a)

98value of each state is “initialized” with(cid:80)

one-dimensional and solvable in the exact same way as before. The
b∈B Ib(a)Vb and again
our dynamic programming base case is that in all states a after all
the badge boundaries, the user will choose xa = p. Then the re-
gion between the last and second-last badge boundaries is identical
to the one-badge case we solved in the previous section and can be
solved analogously. In general, the region between badges j − 1
and j is identical to the single badge case with a badge of value
Vbj + U (xkj ) In this way, we recurse backwards through the set of
badges to solve the one-dimensional case with many badges.
Two targeted dimensions

Now we consider the case where different badges target different
types of actions. We start with B = {b1 = (k1, 1), b2 = (k2, 2)},
so there are two dimensions with one badge targeting each (again,
let n = 2 for convenience).

We begin by observing that only actions on targeted dimensions
affect the optimization problem in any state, thus the utility val-
ues in two states with the same number of A1 actions and A2 ac-
tions are the same. Our problem, and corresponding dynamic pro-
gramming table, is thus two-dimensional. The badge boundaries
a1 = k1 and a2 = k2 split the action space into four regions:

• R: a ﬁnite rectangle bounded by the origin and (k1−1, k2−1),
• H: an inﬁnite horizontal strip with boundary points (k1, 0) and
(k1, k2 − 1) extending rightward,
• V : an inﬁnite vertical strip with boundary points (0, k2) and
(k1 − 1, k2) extending upward, and
• Q: a quadrant rooted at (k1, k2).
Similarly to before, past all the badge boundaries the user has no
incentive to deviate from p, so xa = p for all states in quadrant Q
(those with a1 ≥ k1 and a2 ≥ k2).
old badge in one targeted dimension that we solved above.

Quadrants H and V are then identical to the case of one thresh-

Now we are left with the ﬁnite rectangle R, which we can di-
rectly ﬁll in in order of decreasing coordinate sum since the cells
furthest from the origin depend on the value of states we already
know from solving quadrants Q, H and V . For every state a ∈ R:

n+1(cid:88)

j=1

U (xa) = θ

xj
a · U (xa+ej ) − g(xa, p)

Consider a state a in region R that we process in order. We
have already computed U (xa+e1 ) and U (xa+e2 ), so we can fur-
ther simplify:

U (xa) =

θ · (C1 · x1

a + C2 · x2
1 − θ · x3

a

a) − g(xa, p)

where Cj = U (xa+ej ) for j = 1, 2 are the constants we have
computed. This results in an optimization problem very similar to
the one we had in the one-dimensional case:

maximize

xa

subject to xj

a) − g(xa, p)

θ · (C1 · x1

a + C2 · x2
1 − θ · x3
a ≥ 0, j = 1, 2, 3 and

a

3(cid:88)

j=1

xj

a = 1

Similarly to before, this optimization problem can be solved ef-
ﬁciently. Whereas a naive, approximate solution to the problem
requires solving a quadratic program for each possible discretized
choice of x3
a, our method efﬁciently ﬁnds the exact solution via a
reduction to a one-variable optimization problem (details in the ap-
pendix of the extended version). This means we can use dynamic

Figure 1: User receives the badge after completing 25 A1 ac-
tions. Actions A1 increase towards the badge boundary at the
expense of the other site action A2 (shifting effort within the
site) as well as the life-action A3 (increase in site activity).

Since we have already computed U (a1 + 1) = U (xa+e1 ), this

becomes an optimization problem in 3 variables:

maximize

xa

subject to xj

θ · x1

a + x3
a)

a · C − g(xa, p)
1 − θ(x2
a ≥ 0, j = 1, 2, 3 and

3(cid:88)

j=1

xj

a = 1

where we’ve replaced U (xa+e1 ) with C. In the appendix of the
extended version of the paper we show how to solve this problem
efﬁciently. For our purposes, the important point is that the optimal
distribution in state a1 can be computed using the solution of the
state a1 + 1. Since we know xa = p for all states a such that
a1 ≥ k, we can use this to compute the optimal xa for all a such
that a1 = k − 1, and recurse all the way back to a0, thus solving
the user’s optimization problem in the one-dimensional case.
To illustrate the effects captured by our model, we compute the
optimal policy on a simple illustrative instance. In this instance,
we place one threshold badge on action A1 with boundary 25 (i.e.,
b = (25, 1)). We then solve the user optimization problem de-
ﬁned above and plot the optimal xa as a function of a1 (see Fig-
ure 1). The user’s optimal mixing probability gets progressively
more deﬂected away from his preferred p as he approaches the
badge boundary. The user also increases his probability on A1
by ofﬂoading probability mass from both other action types: he
is shifting his effort within the site (moving probability mass from
the other site action A2) and also increasing participation on the
site overall (moving probability mass from the life-action A3).

Note that unifying participation and shifting site effort in this
way does not necessarily make them equivalent in our framework.
The deviation penalty function g(xa, p) could be chosen to penal-
ize deviating from user’s preference for the life-action more than
deviating from his preferences for the various site actions.
Multiple badges. So far we considered a case where there is only
one badge on the site. We now show that a similar algorithm
can solve the user’s optimization problem when there are multiple
badges that all target the same dimension.

Let B = {bj = (kj, 1)} for j ∈ {1, . . . , m} be a
set of m badges all on the same action A1, and assume that
k1 < k2 < . . . < km without loss of generality. (If kj = kj(cid:48)
(cid:48), then we can consider these two badges as a sin-
for some j (cid:54)= j
gle badge with value equal to the sum of their individual values.)
The fact that there are many badge boundaries does not affect the
algorithm; the observation about the utility in all states with the
same number of A1 actions still holds, since all such states are
equidistant from all badge boundaries, and thus the optimization
problem is the same in all of them. The problem thus becomes

051015202530NumberofA1actions0.00.20.40.60.81.0ProbabilityA1A2A399dimensions {1, 2, . . . , m}; for a set σ ⊆ [m], let Tσ ⊆ Nm denote
the set of vectors a = (a1, a2, . . . , am) such that ai ≤ w if and
only if i ∈ σ. Notice that T[m] is a ﬁnite set, and all other Tσ for
σ (cid:54)= [m] are inﬁnite.
We solve for the optimal policy {xa} in each region Tσ induc-
tively, in order of increasing cardinality of σ. When σ is the empty
set, we know that all a ∈ Tσ satisfy xa = p. For general Tσ,
we can prove the following key fact: Let a, ˜a ∈ Tσ agree on all
coordinates in σ, and let b ∈ Nm; then a + b ∈ Sb if and only if
˜a + b ∈ Sb. In other words, any action sequence starting from a
leads to obtaining the badge if and only if the same action sequence
starting from ˜a does. For such a and ˜a, it follows that we can set
xa = x˜a in the optimal policy.

As a result, it is enough to compute the optimal policy on the
∗
σ ⊆ Tσ in which all coordinates are bounded by w + 1;
subset T
∗
σ on all coordinates
every other a ∈ Tσ agrees with some ˜a ∈ T
in σ, and so its optimal policy can be determined from the optimal
∗
∗
policies on T
σ is a ﬁnite set, we can then compute xa for
σ . Since T
∗
each a ∈ T
σ using the standard recurrence for the optimal policy
by considering vectors a in order of decreasing coordinate sum.

3. EMPIRICAL EVALUATION

Having developed a model of user behavior in the presence of
badges, we now investigate how the predictions of the model com-
pare with the aggregate behavior of people on a popular web site.
We analyze the question-answering (Q&A) site Stack Overﬂow,
which makes extensive use of badges and was one of the ﬁrst sites
to use them on a large scale.

There are over 100 different badges on Stack Overﬂow, which
vary greatly in how difﬁcult they are to achieve. For instance, there
are a number of badges for encouraging new users that nearly ev-
eryone obtains, such as the “Editor” badge for contributing a ﬁrst
edit. In order to measure how user behavior changes in relation to
the badge, we limit our attention to badges that both require sub-
stantial effort to achieve and for which a user’s progress towards
the badge can be readily determined. This latter restriction ex-
cludes one-shot badges such as the “Great Question” badge, which
rewards a single high-quality contribution.

Our particular focus is on threshold badges (those that are
awarded once a user has taken a prespeciﬁed number of actions of
certain types) because the action count provides a direct measure
of progress towards the badge. There are four main action types on
Stack Overﬂow: asking a question, answering a question, voting on
a question and voting on an answer (abbreviated as Q, A, Q-vote
and A-vote, respectively). The two badges that we consider here
are the “Electorate” badge, awarded for taking at least 600 Q-votes
and having at least one Q-vote for every four A-votes3, and the
“Civic Duty” badge, awarded after voting 300 times (on questions
or answers). Importantly, users can see exactly how many actions
they’ve taken so far, and how many more they need to take in order
to achieve these badges. In the language of our model, Electorate
is a threshold badge and Civic Duty is an additive badge.

Our analysis is made possible by the granular level of detail
available in the activity traces on Stack Overﬂow4. Each individual
action performed by a user is recorded and timestamped, which af-
fords us the ability to directly observe the complete sequence of
actions users take and measure their progress towards obtaining

3In our data once user takes 600 Q-votes, they almost always sat-
isfy the restriction on the ratio of Q- to A-votes, so we can think of
the “Electorate” badge as being a threshold on 600 Q-votes.
4Stack Overﬂow generously gave us a complete trace of actions,
but qualitatively similar results are derivable from the data that is
publicly available on the Stack Overﬂow website.

Figure 2: Two badges, each in one dimension. Arrows are pro-
jections of the optimal 3-dimensional directions in each state.
Arrow length corresponds to user participation on the site, and
arrow direction corresponds to the distribution over the two
site actions. Notice that towards the badge boundary arrows
get longer (as the user increases site activity) as well as point in-
creasingly towards the boundary (as the user shifts effort onto
the activity warranting the badge).

programming to ﬁll in R moving right-to-left and top-to-bottom,
which solves the user optimization problem with two badges on
different targeted dimensions. Figure 2 shows the optimal policy
for an example two-dimensional problem. Again, the user both
participates more on the site and steers toward badge boundaries.

we initialize each state with a different (cid:80)

This algorithm extends to the case when both targeted dimen-
sions have multiple badges, just as in the one-dimensional case.
The base case Q region remains as before, the inﬁnite strips H
and V become equivalent to the one-dimensional case with many
badges, and the ﬁnite rectangle R is the same as before except
b Ib(a)Vb, depending
on which badges have been won. This fully covers the two-
dimensional case with any set of threshold badges.
General Monotone Badges. We’ve seen that interesting and in-
tuitively natural behavior emerges even when we limit our atten-
tion to threshold badges in one or two dimensions. We now brieﬂy
discuss the user’s optimization problem in the case of an arbitrary
monotone badge. (We leave the proofs to the extended version.)

For a badge b, let Sb be the set of action vectors that warrant the
badge: Sb = {a : Ib(a) = 1}. If we let m = n + 1 be the number
of dimensions, then Sb is a subset of Nm, the set of all m-tuples
of natural numbers, and we say that Sb is monotone if for any two
vectors a, ˜a ∈ Nm such that ˜a ≥ a and a ∈ S, we have ˜a ∈ S. In
this notation, b is a monotone badge if Sb is monotone.
The ﬁrst challenge in discussing an arbitrary monotone badge b
is how to even specify it compactly—do the conditions required
to obtain b necessarily have a ﬁnite description? In fact they do,
based on a result in combinatorics known as Dickson’s Lemma. To
formulate this result, we need one more deﬁnition: for a monotone
set S ⊆ Nm, we say that a ∈ S is a minimal element if for all
˜a (cid:54)= a, we have that ˜a ≤ a implies ˜a (cid:54)∈ Sb. Dickson’s Lemma
says the following: any monotone subset of Nm has only ﬁnitely
many minimal elements.

This result implies that for any monotone badge b, there is a ﬁnite
set of vectors c1, c2, . . . , ck such that Ib(a) = 1 if and only if one
of the vectors ci satisﬁes ci ≤ a.
Given this, we can solve the user’s optimization problem for
badge b as follows. We ﬁrst choose a natural number w such that
all coordinates of all vectors ci are upper-bounded by w, and let w
be the vector in Nm all of whose coordinates are w. The central
construction is to divide up Nm by thinking of w as the “origin,”
and looking at the 2m regions deﬁned by whether each coordinate
is larger or smaller than w. Speciﬁcally, let [m] denote the set of

05101520NumberofA1actions024681012NumberofA2actions100Figure 3: Number of actions per day as a function of number of
days relative the time of obtaining a badge. Notice steering in
the sense of increased activity on actions targeted by the badge.

badges. We use Stack Overﬂow data from the site’s inception on
July 31, 2008 to December 31, 2010.
Activity around the badge boundary. We ﬁrst examine how
users’ propensities to take different types of actions vary as they
approach the badge boundary. We aim to analyze both how users
shift their effort between actions on the site and change their overall
level of site activity. For each user we bin the number of actions of
each type by day. This way, changes in the relative number of var-
ious types of actions per day indicate a user shifting his efforts on
the site, and the daily sum over all actions measures his overall par-
ticipation level (where an increase or decrease in participation can
be interpreted as steering away from or towards the life-action).

For each badge, we take the complete set of users who ever
achieved that badge and axis-align their activity proﬁles by letting
“day 0” denote the day they receive the badge. To eliminate pos-
sible population effects, we restrict the set of users to those who
were active at least 60 days before and after they win the badge.
Figure 3 shows user activity in the days surrounding the award-
ing of the Electorate and Civic Duty badges. Notice how activ-
ity on the targeted actions (Q-votes for Electorate, Q-votes and A-
votes for Civic Duty) increases substantially before users achieve
the badge, and then almost immediately returns to near-baseline
levels. Also notice that most of the other site actions are not ad-
versely affected—the rates of these actions remain relatively sta-
ble over time. Since the four actions shown in the Figure are the
main activities on the site, this means users increase their overall
activity level on the site in the days leading up to achieving these
badges. The one exception is the A-vote curve in the Electorate
badge, which drops in the days leading up to the badge boundary.
This is evidence that users are steering their behavior from A-votes
to Q-votes during this time.

Figure 4: Electorate badge. Given that user has taken x
question-votes and y answer-votes, what is the probability that
next action will be a question vote. Top: Raw probability. Bot-
tom: Relative change in probability of question-voting. Notice
the effects of “turning” towards the badge boundary.

Turning towards the badge. Given that we do indeed see the sort
of steering behavior predicted by our model, where user activity
increases near a badge boundary (in these cases at the expense of
the life-action), we now examine how users steer towards badge
boundaries. One of the main qualitative predictions of our model
is that users will “turn” towards badge boundaries, meaning they
will deviate more from their preferred actions as they get closer to
receiving a badge. We test this prediction by computing which ac-
tions a user has taken over the course of his lifetime, and examining
how actions change as a function of position in the action space.

We proceed as follows. For every state in the action space, we
compute the empirical distribution over site actions that users took
in that state. For example, for all users who at one point during
their lifetimes had contributed exactly 11 questions, 17 answers, 20
question-votes, and 11 answer-votes, we calculate the distribution
over the next action they are going to take. The resulting distribu-
tion represents the aggregate direction users traveled at that point in
the action space. The composition of these directions forms a vec-
tor ﬁeld like the one we modeled in Figure 2. Since this vector ﬁeld
is 4-dimensional, we visualize its projection onto the question-vote
and answer-vote dimensions in Figure 4 (top), where hotter colors
represent higher likelihoods of the next action being a question-vote
(and cooler colors represent higher likelihoods of the next action
being an answer-vote).

The ﬁrst salient feature of the vector ﬁeld is the gradient from
hot to cold as the angle departing the origin varies between the
two extremes. The fact that the color stays the same along a given
direction starting from the origin is a validation of our modeling
assumption that users have preferred distributions over the action

−60−40−200204060Numberofdaysrelativetobadgewin02468101214NumberofactionsperdayElectorateQsAsQ-votesA-votes−60−40−200204060Numberofdaysrelativetobadgewin0246810NumberofactionsperdayCivicDutyQsAsQ-votesA-votes0100200300400500600700Question-votes02004006008001000Answer-votes0.00.20.40.60.81.00100200300400500600700Question-votes02004006008001000Answer-votes−0.6−0.4−0.20.00.20.40.6101types: one interpretation consistent with this gradient is that users
tend to travel in the direction they have already traveled in.

To more clearly illustrate the “turning” effect, we normalize out
the tendency of users to act as they have acted in the past by sub-
tracting off the direction of each cell (so that each cell shows the
difference between the empirical fraction of actions users chose and
the fraction given by the position of the cell). In the resulting plot,
Figure 4 (bottom), white indicates a direction matching the vec-
tor corresponding to the position in action space, black indicates
a higher probability of taking a question-vote, and red indicates a
lower probability of taking a question-vote.

The dominant white color for small x values shows that away
from badge boundaries, users do not deviate much from the direc-
tion they have already taken. For greater x values, we clearly see
that once users get near the Electorate badge boundary, they start
performing more question votes (than we would expect given their
position in the action space). Furthermore, this shifting towards
question votes intensiﬁes as they approach the boundary (the dark-
est greys occur right before the boundary). As soon as users obtain
the badge, they shift back away from question voting (doing this
action less than we would expect given their position, as indicated
by the red color). That the badge boundary naturally emerges from
observing users’ directions in action space is a striking conﬁrma-
tion that badges inﬂuence user behavior and supports our multi-
dimensional modeling framework. Additionally, the increase in in-
tensity as we move along the x axis agrees with our model’s qual-
itative prediction that users are increasingly incentivized as they
approach badge boundaries.

To summarize, the above experiments demonstrate that badges
can steer user behavior in a manner consistent with our model.
First, we observe user site activity increases as users approach the
badge and thus site activity increases at the expense of the life-
action. And second, we observe that users also shift their effort on
the site towards actions that lead them to badges. To our knowl-
edge, this is the ﬁrst concrete evidence of users changing their be-
havior in either of these two distinct ways in response to badges.

4. THE BADGE PLACEMENT PROBLEM
Having seen that our model matches up well with real-world be-
havior for threshold badges on Stack Overﬂow (badges that are
awarded once a user has taken a speciﬁed number of actions of
certain types) we now investigate how our model can help provide
insights into the design of badges for online communities. In partic-
ular, the site designer has the ability to decide on the conditions for
obtaining badges; within our model we think of this as “placing”
the badge boundaries within the space of action vectors. We are in-
terested in addressing the following questions: (1) How much user
steering do different badge placements provide? (2) How might
site designer place badges to best achieve desired user behavior?
(3) What is the space of user behaviors ﬁxed badges can elicit?

We present our results organized around these three central ques-
tions. First, we ﬁnd that the effectiveness of a badge is generally
maximized at an internal optimum that is surprisingly high, and
we explore how the effectiveness varies with the setting. Second,
the effectiveness of multiple badges working together is maximized
when they are of equal value and are spaced roughly evenly apart.
Finally, we explore the “feasible region” of user behaviors the de-
signer can elicit with a ﬁxed set of badges and ﬁnd it to be a highly
complex and counterintuitive structure worthy of future study.

We arrived at these results by running experiments on our model
developed in Section 2. By repeating the simulations using many
different parameter settings, we found that the presented results
all hold for a wide range of parameter values and thus illustrate

Figure 5: The resulting fraction of actions on the targeted di-
mension (here A1) as a function of where the badge is placed.
The different curves show how the relationship varies as the
user’s preferences p change.

broader principles of the badge placement problem. Moreover, we
used the same g(·) as before: g(x, p) = (cid:107)x − p(cid:107)2
2.
Throughout this section, we refer to the total fraction of actions
on a targeted action (over the user’s lifetime) that results from a
particular set of badge placements as the yield of those badges. We
also deﬁne gain to be the difference between the yield and the de-
fault fraction of actions the user takes in the absence of any badges.
Optimal location and yield with one badge

We start our investigations with the case in which the site de-
signer has a single badge at her disposal and wishes to maximize
the yield on a single dimension, which we take to be A1 without
loss of generality. This setting, while simple, is of both conceptual
and practical value, since the effects of placing a single badge are
most easily seen when the badge is the only inﬂuence over user be-
havior, and in practice it is often desirable for the designer to limit
herself to a single badge.

Placing a badge of ﬁxed prespeciﬁed value on a single dimension
requires striking the right balance between two mutually compet-
ing forces. First, if the badge is to have an effect on many actions,
its threshold should be set high enough so that it takes many steps
to achieve it. However, if its threshold is set too high, then even
surviving long enough on the site to achieve the badge becomes
a low-probability event and thus users will not be sufﬁciently in-
centivized to steer strongly towards it. The solution to the badge
placement problem is therefore in general an internal optimum be-
tween these two goals.

Figure 5 shows how the fraction of actions on the targeted di-
mension A1 (the yield) varies as a function of where the badge
of ﬁxed value is placed. We plot this for various choices of
p = (x, 0.5 − x, 0.5), x ∈ {0.05, . . . , 0.45} (while keeping all
other parameters ﬁxed). Notice that each curve has a unique inter-
nal maximum. We can also see that the resulting fraction of A1
actions is higher for larger values of p1, which intuitively makes
sense since the user is increasingly predisposed to take A1 actions.
More subtle, however, is that the optimal badge location also in-
creases with p1:
for p1 = 0.05 it is A1 = 75, whereas for
p1 = 0.45 it is A1 = 90. Another interesting observation is that
this optimal location is surprisingly high: since θ = 0.99 in this
example, p1 = 0.05 implies that the user would only take 5 A1
actions in the absence of badges, yet the optimal badge location is
far beyond this point, at A1 = 75.

These results suggest

interesting relationships between the
model parameter settings and the amount of steering induced by
the badge. For example, we just saw that the yield increases with
p1, and that the badge gets placed further away from the origin as
p1 increases. In Figure 6, we plot the yield at the optimal badge

050100150200Badgeplacement0.00.10.20.30.40.50.60.70.8Yieldp1=0.45p1=0.35p1=0.25p1=0.15p1=0.05102Figure 6: How optimal yield varies with setting parameters.

location as a function of p1, Vb, and the user’s expected lifetime
1/(1 − θ). We observe that the relationship follows a different
functional form for each setting: the yield increases approximately
linearly in p1 (but the gain decreases linearly), increases with di-
minishing returns in Vb, and surprisingly decreases in the expected
lifetime of the user. The decreasing relationships are particularly
interesting; they imply that the designer can steer users more on
the actions they dislike (i.e., low p1) than those they like, and that
badges have stronger effects when users’ lifetimes are shorter.
Two principles for placing multiple badges

So far we have established that a single badge is optimally placed
at an ideal middle ground (which is surprisingly high) and explored
how the optimal yield depends on the setting. Now we investigate
how one should place use multiple badges in concert with each
other (i.e., target the same dimension). Exploring optimal place-
ments for pairs of badges (rather than individual badges) uncovers
two additional basic principles that we now discuss.
Optimal spacing. We ﬁnd that yield on a single targeted dimension
is maximized by two badges when they are spaced roughly evenly
apart.
In Figure 7, each point (x, y) represents placing the two
badges at x and y A1 actions, respectively, and the color indicates
the resulting yield (i.e., the cumulative activity on both targeted
actions). More effective badge placements are colored red, while
less effective placements are colored blue. Due to symmetry the
plot is naturally mirrored below the diagonal.

The salient qualitative observation is that the optimal set of badge
locations is off the main diagonal, indicating that it is better to place
the two badges at distinct locations than to combine them into a
single large badge at any single location.

In fact, this observation is consistent with the solution of the
user’s optimization problem in Section 2.2 in the case of multi-
ple badges on the same dimension, where we saw that the last
badge exerts inﬂuence over not only the region after the second-
last boundary, but also over the earlier regions as well. There, once
we solved the user’s optimal direction for the last badge, solving
the second-last badge region became equivalent to the one-badge
case with a badge value equal to the second-last badge value plus
the expected utility from potentially winning the last badge.

We further note that in the optimal set of placements, badges are
spaced approximately evenly apart. If the ﬁrst badge is at a1 = x,
the second badge is at a1 = 2x− for some small . The reason for
the  is that the second badge is placed a little closer to the origin
than it would be placed in a one-badge problem starting at a1 = x
since it not only steers behavior for a1 ≥ x but also has a slight
effect on the user for a1 < x.
Yield is maximized with badges of equal value. In the previous
case, the two badges targeted the same action but both had some
ﬁxed equal value z. Now we allow the two badges to take dif-
ferent values while their total value is held constant. Assume the
ﬁrst badge has value x and the second 2z − x. Now ﬁx z and the
question is: what is the optimal way to split the value of 2z among
the two badges to gain maximum yield? Figure 8 plots the yield

Figure 7: Yield as a function of where two badges are placed
on the same targeted dimension. Every cell (x, y) corresponds
to placing one badge at a1 = x actions and another at a1 = y
actions, and the color of the cell indicates the resulting yield.

Figure 8: How the optimal yield achievable with two badges
depends on how a ﬁxed amount of utility is split across the two
badges. The more even the split, the higher the yield.

as a function of x. Notice the effectiveness of the two badges is
maximized when the badges have equal value (x = z). This result
suggests that the designer should create badges in such a way that
they have about equal value.
Targeting two dimensions

We just established how yield on one targeted dimension is max-
imized by a single badge and when two badges are acting together.
The yield of a set of badges was a natural objective function, since
it expresses how much of the given action can be induced by the
badge(s). With badges that can target different dimensions, there
is a more complex set of trade-offs, since we need to decide how
we want to balance increases in the volume of one site action with
increases in another, when both are targeted by badges. More gen-
erally, we ask: what is the set of all possible behaviors that can be
induced using badges targeting multiple dimensions?

For simplicity we consider the scenario in which the designer
has two threshold badges that she can place however she wants.
She can put them both on A1, both on A2, or one on each action.
Figure 9 plots the all possible behaviors that can be induced using
two threshold badges. The general contour of the plot is maintained
across a wide range of model parameter settings. (For example, the
contour grows as the user’s expected lifetime gets longer.)

The opacity of each (x, y) cell reﬂects how many distinct place-
ments of two badges produce a yield of x on A1 and a yield of y
on A2. The dark outlines of the blue and red regions (where the de-
signer targets the same dimension with both badges) indicate that
it’s easier (in the sense that there are more unique placements) to
elicit yield on the border than in the middle of these wing-shaped
regions. If we consider the blue region as an example, the upper
outline, near the y = 10 line, is dark because it corresponds to
using one badge nearly optimally and essentially “discarding” the
other one (by placing it so far from the origin that it doesn’t shape
user behavior), whereas the lower dark outline (smoothly varying
from (10%, 10%) to (40%, 2%)) corresponds to using both badges

0.00.20.40.60.8p10.00.20.40.60.81.0YieldYieldGain0150300450Badgeamount0.00.20.40.60.81.00150300450Expectedlifetime0.00.20.40.60.81.00100200300400Badgeboundary10100200300400Badgeboundary20.00.10.20.30.4020406080100Vb1=100−Vb20.700.750.800.850.90Yield103Badges for Lifelong Learning Competition has made use of the
Mozilla Open Badges project [10, 16] for this purpose. Thus far
such initiatives in education have used badges primarily as a form
of credentialing, but moving beyond this towards engaging and mo-
tivating students is another key opportunity with badges in this set-
ting. The advantages of badges in such contexts is a theme that has
been advocated in earlier research in education as well [4].

Rewards for cumulative effort have been considered in several
domains. For example, one can interpret customer loyalty pro-
grams as containing badge-like incentives, such as the different
status milestones in airline frequent ﬂier programs, and research
economics and marketing has studied the effect of such programs
on customer behavior [14, 15]. In a different direction, Zhang et al.
consider placing limited amounts of reward in a Markov decision
process, as an instance of what they term environment design [20].
Finally, our work is related to the more general question of in-
centives for contribution in social media. This is a very broad
area, encompassing a number of approaches beyond just the use
of badges for expressing incentives. As noted in the introduction,
two methodologies that have been brought to bear on this question
in the computing literature are (i) social-psychological perspec-
tives on the notion of engagement and social motivators [5, 6, 17];
and (ii) algorithmic game-theoretic and economic approaches, in-
cluding incentives for recruitment, contribution quality, and crowd-
sourced effort [2, 7, 8, 12, 13].

6. CONCLUSION

Badge systems are an increasingly widespread feature of online
social media sites, and they can produce strong incentive effects
on the users in these domains. Our work has proposed a method-
ology for reasoning about these incentives, starting with a model
of users who optimize their behavior given opportunities to receive
badges. The main qualitative predictions of our model are borne
out by an analysis of user behavior in the presence of badges on
Stack Overﬂow, and we have seen how the model provides useful
qualitative insights into the problem of placing badges to optimize
their incentive effects.

We see a number of important directions in which further work
could be pursued. First, the notion of a badge’s value has been
taken as a primitive deﬁnition in this work, but as discussed earlier,
it is interesting to think about the mechanisms by which badges ac-
quire (non-monetary) value, and the extent to which a site designer
can inﬂuence the value of a badge. More generally, our model sug-
gests that in optimizing a system of badges, certain parameters—
not just the badges’ values but also the structure of the possible
actions, users’ preferences for these actions, and users’ expected
lifetimes—all can play a potential role in the process. Develop-
ing methods of estimating these parameters for use in the design of
badge systems is an interesting direction for further research.

Incentivizing users to increase their activity naturally brings up
the question of how this affects the quality of their actions. For ex-
ample, we ﬁnd on Stack Overﬂow that users’ votes on questions are
signiﬁcantly more positive before they receive the Electorate badge
than after it. Developing principled ways of incorporating action
quality into models of user behavior in the presence of badges is an
exciting direction for future work.
Acknowledgments. We thank Stack Overﬂow for providing their data and
Hristo Spassimirov Paskov for help solving the optimization problems. This
research is supported in part by a Google PhD Fellowship, a Simons Inves-
tigator Award, a Google Research Grant, an ARO MURI grant, the Okawa
Foundation, Boeing, Allyes, Intel, a Sloan Fellowship, a Microsoft Faculty
Fellowship, and NSF grants IIS-1149837, IIS-0910664, CCF-0910940, IIS-
1159679, IIS-1016909, CNS-1010921, and IIS-1016099.

Figure 9: The feasible region of what yields are achievable
with two badges of ﬁxed value (here Vb1 = Vb2 = 200 and
p = (0.1, 0.1, 0.8)). A blue cell at (x, y) indicates that the de-
signer can have both badges target A1 actions and elicit x% of
A1 actions and y% of A2 actions; red cells are similar but for
the A2 dimension; and yellow cells indicate what is achievable
by putting one badge on each dimension. The cell opacity cor-
responds to how many different pairs of badge locations elicit
that particular yield.

in concert. There are similar recurring “veins” in the gold region,
indicating that some parameterized lines through the feasible re-
gion are implemented by more badge placements than others.

The maximum yield on a single dimension naturally occurs when
the designer places both badges on that dimension, and the mid-
dle ground where both the yield is high on both dimensions oc-
curs when she places one badge on each dimension. However, note
that the feasible region is interestingly non-convex between these
two cases. This means that designer cannot induce certain behav-
iors regardless of how she places the badges. For example, the
designer can elicit (5%, 70%) yield using two badges on A2 and
(15%, 50%) using one badge on each, but she cannot elicit the in-
termediate (10%, 60%) using any combination of two badges.
5. RELATED WORK

As noted in the introduction, the use of badges is a growing trend
in the design of online communities, social computing applications,
and electronic commerce (e.g. see [19]), and researchers have be-
gun to study the role that badges play in these sites. Antin and
Churchill [1] present a conceptual organization for different types
of badges, considering, among other things, the motivation they
provide from a social-psychological viewpoint. Oktay et al. [18]
use quasi-experimental designs to support causal claims in the con-
text of badges. The use of badges can be viewed as part of the grow-
ing phenomenon of gamiﬁcation [9], in which elements tradition-
ally associated with computer games are used to motivate people in
other domains. Our work contributes to this literature by propos-
ing a formal framework for reasoning about the effects badges will
have, which can potentially be used for the badge design in both
current and new contexts.

Badges and badge-like recognitions have been proposed in off-
line domains as well. There is a growing movement toward us-
ing systems of badges in educational settings; as one example, the

1047. REFERENCES
[1] J. Antin and E. Churchill. Badges in social media: A social

psychological perspective. In CHI Workshop on
Gamiﬁcation, 2011.

[2] M. Babaioff, S. Dobzinski, S. Oren, and A. Zohar. On bitcoin

and red balloons. In ACM Conference on Electronic
Commerce, pages 56–73, 2012.

[3] T. Becker and V. Weispfenning. Gröbner Bases: A

Computational Approach to Commutative Algebra. Springer,
1993.

[4] J. H. Bishop. Incentives for learning: Why american high

school students compare so poorly to their counterparts
overseas. Technical Report CAHRS 89-09, Cornell
University School of Industrial and Labor Relations, 1989.

[5] M. Burke, C. Marlow, and T. M. Lento. Feed me: motivating

newcomer contribution in social network sites. In ACM
Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems, pages
945–954, 2009.

[6] M. Burke and B. Settles. Plugged in to the community:

social motivators in online goal-setting groups. In
International Conference on Communities and Technologies,
pages 1–10, 2011.

[7] M. Cebrián, L. Coviello, A. Vattani, and P. Voulgaris.

Finding red balloons with split contracts: robustness to
individuals’ selﬁshness. In ACM Symposium on Theory of
Computing, pages 775–788, 2012.

[8] S. Chawla, J. D. Hartline, and B. Sivan. Optimal

crowdsourcing contests. In ACM-SIAM Symposium on
Discrete Algorithms, pages 856–868, 2012.

[9] S. Deterding, M. Sicart, L. Nacke, K. O’Hara, and D. Dixon.

Gamiﬁcation: Using game-design elements in non-gaming
contexts. In CHI Workshop on Gamiﬁcation, 2011.

[10] Digital Media and Learning Competition. Badges for lifelong

learning. http://dmlcompetition.net/competition/4/badges-
competition-cfp.php.

[11] S. Frederick, G. Loewenstein, and T. O’Donoghue. Time

discounting and time preference: A critical review. Journal
of Economic Literature, 40(2):351–401, 2002.

[12] A. Ghosh and R. P. McAfee. Incentivizing high-quality

user-generated content. In International World Wide Web
Conference, pages 137–146, 2011.

[13] J. Kleinberg and P. Raghavan. Query incentive networks. In

IEEE Symposium on Foundations of Computer Science,
pages 132–141, 2005.

[14] P. K. Kopalle and S. A. Neslin. The economic viability of

frequency reward programs in a strategic competitive
environment. Review of Marketing Science, 1, 2003.

[15] M. Lewis. The inﬂuence of loyalty programs and short-term

promotions on customer retention. Journal of Marketing
Research, 41(3), 2004.

[16] Mozilla. Open badges. http://openbadges.org/en-US/.
[17] H. L. O’Brien and E. G. Toms. What is user engagement? a

conceptual framework for deﬁning user engagement with
technology. Journal of the American Society for Information
Science and Technology, 59(6):938–955, 2008.

[18] H. Oktay, B. Taylor, and D. Jensen. Causal discovery in

social media using quasi-experimental designs. In
Proceedings of the First Workshop on Social Media
Analytics, pages 1–9. ACM, 2010.

[19] N. Singer. You’ve won a badge (and now we know all about

you). New York Times, 4 February 2012.

[20] H. Zhang, D. C. Parkes, and Y. Chen. Policy teaching

through reward function learning. In ACM Conference on
Electronic Commerce, pages 295–304. ACM, 2009.

105