A Measurement Analysis of a Large Anonymous Online

Traveling the Silk Road:

Marketplace

Nicolas Christin

Carnegie Mellon INI/CyLab

nicolasc@cmu.edu

ABSTRACT
We perform a comprehensive measurement analysis of Silk Road,
an anonymous, international online marketplace that operates as
a Tor hidden service and uses Bitcoin as its exchange currency.
We gather and analyze data over eight months between the end of
2011 and 2012, including daily crawls of the marketplace for nearly
six months in 2012. We obtain a detailed picture of the type of
goods sold on Silk Road, and of the revenues made both by sellers
and Silk Road operators. Through examining over 24,400 separate
items sold on the site, we show that Silk Road is overwhelmingly
used as a market for controlled substances and narcotics, and that
most items sold are available for less than three weeks. The major-
ity of sellers disappears within roughly three months of their arrival,
but a core of 112 sellers has been present throughout our measure-
ment interval. We evaluate the total revenue made by all sellers,
from public listings, to slightly over USD 1.2 million per month;
this corresponds to about USD 92,000 per month in commissions
for the Silk Road operators. We further show that the marketplace
has been operating steadily, with daily sales and number of sellers
overall increasing over our measurement interval. We discuss eco-
nomic and policy implications of our analysis and results, including
ethical considerations for future research in this area.

Categories and Subject Descriptors
K.4.1 [Public Policy Issues]: Abuse and crime involving comput-
ers

Keywords
Online crime, anonymity, electronic commerce

1.

INTRODUCTION

“More brazen than anything else by light-years” is how U.S.
Senator Charles Schumer characterized Silk Road [5], an online
anonymous marketplace. While a bit of a hyperbole, this sentiment
is characteristic of a certain nervousness among political leaders
when it comes to anonymous networks. The relatively recent de-
velopment of usable interfaces to anonymous networks, such as
the “Tor browser bundle,” has indeed made it extremely easy for
anybody to browse the Internet anonymously, regardless of their
technical background.
In turn, anonymous online markets have
emerged, making it quite difﬁcult for law enforcement to identify
buyers and sellers. As a result, these anonymous online markets

Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference
Committee (IW3C2). IW3C2 reserves the right to provide a hyperlink
to the author’s site if the Material is used in electronic media.
WWW 2013, May 13–17, 2013, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
ACM 978-1-4503-2035-1/13/05.

Figure 1: Silk Road front page. The site offers a number of licit
and illicit items, with a marked focus on narcotics.

very often specialize in “black market” goods, such as pornogra-
phy, weapons or narcotics.

Silk Road is one such anonymous online market. It is not the
only one – others, such as Black Market Reloaded [3], the Ar-
mory [1], or the General Store [7] are or have been offering similar
services – but it gained fame after an article posted on Gawker [10],
which resulted in it being noticed by congressional leaders, who
demanded prompt action be taken. It is also reportedly very large,
with estimates mentioned in the Silk Road online forum [6] ranging
between 30,000 and 150,000 active customers.

Figure 1 shows the Silk Road front page. The site has a profes-
sional, if minimalist, look, and appears to offer a variety of goods
(e.g., books, digital goods, digital currency...), but seems to have a
clear focus on drugs. Not only do most items listed appear to be
controlled substances, but the screenshot also shows the site adver-
tising a sale campaign for April 20 – also known as “Pot day” due
to the North American slang for cannabis (four-twenty).

In this paper, we try to provide a scientiﬁc characterization of the
Silk Road marketplace, by gathering a set of controlled measure-
ments over roughly six months (February 3, 2012 – July 24, 2012),
and analyzing them.

Speciﬁcally, we offer the following contributions. We devise a
(simple) collection methodology to obtain publicly available Silk
Road market data. We use the data collected to characterize the
items being sold on Silk Road and the seller population. We de-
scribe how items sold and seller population have evolved over time.
Using (mandatory) buyer feedback reports as a proxy for sales, we
characterize sales volumes over our measurement interval. We pro-
vide an estimate of the daily dollar amount of sales conducted on
Silk Road, and use this estimate to infer the amount collected in

213commission by Silk Road operators. While we cannot estimate the
number of buyers with the dataset we collect, we show that Silk
Road is a relatively signiﬁcant market, with a few hundred sellers,
and monthly total revenue of about USD 1.2 million. We also show
that Silk Road has been steadily growing over time.

The rest of this paper is structured as follows. We start by de-
scribing how Silk Road operates in Section 2. We then explain
how we gather our measurements in Section 3. We report on our
measurements analysis in Section 4, before turning to economic
implications in Section 5. We discuss our ﬁndings, reﬂect on pos-
sible intervention policies, and ethical considerations in Section 6,
outline related work in Section 7, and conclude in Section 8.

2. SILK ROAD OVERVIEW

Silk Road is an online anonymous marketplace that started its
operations in February 2011 [6]. Silk Road is not, itself, a shop.
Instead, it provides infrastructure for sellers and buyers to conduct
transactions in an online environment. In this respect, Silk Road
is more similar to the Amazon Marketplace, Craigslist, or eBay
than to Amazon.com. The major difference between Silk Road and
these other marketplaces is that Silk Road focuses on ensuring, as
much as possible, anonymity of both sellers and buyers.
In this
section, we summarize the major features of Silk Road through a
description of the steps involved in a typical transaction: accessing
Silk Road, making a purchase, and getting the goods delivered.
Accessing Silk Road. Suppose that Bob (B), a prospective buyer,
wants to access the Silk Road marketplace (SR). Bob will ﬁrst
need to install a Tor client on his machine, or use a web proxy
to the Tor network (e.g. http://tor2web.org) as Silk Road
runs only as a Tor hidden service [11]. That is, instead of having a
DNS name mapping to a known IP address, Silk Road uses a URL
based on the pseudo-top level domain .onion, that can only be
resolved through Tor. At a high level, when Bob’s client attempts to
contact the Silk Road server URL ( [5] at the time of this writing),
Tor nodes set up a rendez-vous point inside the Tor network so
that the client and server can communicate with each other while
maintaining their IP addresses unknown from observers and from
each other.

Once connected to the Silk Road website, Bob will need to cre-
ate an account. The process is simple and merely involves regis-
tering a user name, password, withdrawal PIN, and answering a
CAPTCHA. After this registration, Bob is presented with the Silk
Road front page (see Figure 1) from where he can access all of Silk
Road’s public listings.
Public and stealth listings. Silk Road places relatively few restric-
tions on the types of goods sellers can offer. From the Silk Road
sellers’ guide [5],

“Do not list anything who’s (sic) purpose is to harm
or defraud, such as stolen items or info, stolen credit
cards, counterfeit currency, personal info, assassina-
tions, and weapons of any kind. Do not list anything
related to pedophilia.”

Conspicuously absent from the list of prohibited items are pre-
scription drugs, narcotics, adult pornography and fake identiﬁca-
tion documents (e.g., counterfeit driver’s licenses). Weapons and
ammunition used to be allowed until March 4, 2012, when they
were transferred to a sister site, The Armory [1], which operated
with an infrastructure similar to that of Silk Road. The Armory
closed in August 2012 reportedly due to a lack of business [6].

Not all of the Silk Road listings are public. Silk Road supports
stealth listings, which are not linked from the rest of Silk Road, and

are thus only accessible by buyers who have been given their URL.
Stealth listings are frequently used for custom listings directed at
speciﬁc customers, and established through out-of-band mecha-
nisms (e.g., private messaging between seller and buyer). Sellers
may further operate in stealth mode, meaning that their seller page
and all the pages of the items they have for sale are not linked from
other Silk Road pages. While Silk Road is open to anybody, stealth
mode allows sellers with an established customer base to operate
their business as invitation-only.

Making a purchase. After having perused the items available for
sale on Silk Road, Bob decides to make a purchase from Sarah (S),
a seller. While Tor ensures communication anonymity, Silk Road
needs to also preserve payment anonymity. To that effect, Silk
Road only supports Bitcoin (BTC, [30]) as a trading currency. Bit-
coin is a peer-to-peer, distributed payment system that supports ver-
iﬁable transactions without the need for a central third-party. Bob
thus needs to ﬁrst procure Bitcoins, which he can do from the many
online exchanges such as Mt.Gox [4]. Once Bob has Bitcoins, and
decides to purchase the item from Sarah, instead of paying Sarah
directly, Bob places the corresponding amount in escrow with Silk
Road. Effectively, B pays SR, not S. The escrow mechanism al-
lows the market operator to accurately compute their commission
fees, and to resolve disputes between sellers and buyers. Silk Road
mandates all sellers and buyers use the escrow system. Failure to
do so is punishable by expulsion from the marketplace [5].

Finalizing. Once the purchase has been made, Sarah must ship it to
Bob. Thus, Sarah needs a physical address where to send the item.
To preserve anonymity, Silk Road recommends to use delivery ad-
dresses that are distinct from the buyer’s residence. For instance,
Bob could have the item delivered at Patsy’s house, or to a post-
ofﬁce box. Once Sarah has marked the item as shipped, Bob’s de-
livery address is erased from all records. Once the item reaches its
destination, Bob ﬁnalizes the purchase, that is, he tells Silk Road
to release the funds held in escrow to Sarah (i.e., SR now pays
S), and leaves feedback about Sarah. Finalizing is mandatory: if
Bob forgets to do so, Silk Road will automatically ﬁnalize pending
orders after a set amount of time.

Sellers with more than 35 successful transactions and who have
been active for over a month are allowed to ask their buyers to
ﬁnalize early; that is, to release payment and leave feedback before
they actually receive the item. Due to the potential for abuse, Silk
Road discourages ﬁnalizing early in general, and prohibits it for
new sellers.

Finally, Silk Road enhances transaction anonymity by providing
“tumbler” services that consist of inserting several dummy, single-
use intermediaries between a payer and a payee. That is, instead of
having a payment correspond to a simple transaction chain B →
SR → S, the payment goes through a longer chain B → I1 →
. . . → In → S where (I1, . . . In) are one-time-use intermediaries.

3. COLLECTION METHODOLOGY

We next turn to describing how we collected measurements of
the Silk Road marketplace. We ﬁrst brieﬂy explain our crawling
mechanism, before outlining some of the challenges we faced with
data collection. We then discuss in detail the data that we gathered.
3.1 Crawling mechanism

We registered an account on Silk Road in November 2011, and
started with a few test crawls. We immediately noticed that Silk
Road relies on authentication cookies that can be reused for up to
a week without having to re-authenticate through the login prompt

214of the website. Provided we can manually refresh the authentica-
tion cookie at least once per week, this allows us to bypass the
CAPTCHA mechanism and automate our crawls.

We conducted a near-comprehensive crawl of the site on Novem-
ber 29, 2011,1 using HTTrack [34]. Speciﬁcally, we crawled all
“item,” “user” (i.e., seller) and “category” webpages. The com-
plete crawl completed in about 48 hours and corresponded to ap-
proximately 244 MB of data, including 124 MB of images.

Starting on February 3, 2012, and until July 24, 2012, we at-
tempted to perform daily crawls of the website. Early in 2012,
Silk Road moved to inlining images as base64 tags in each web-
page. This considerably slowed down crawls. Using an incremen-
tal mode, that is, ignoring pages that had not changed from one
crawl to the next, each of these crawls ran, on average, for about
14 hours. The fastest crawl completed in slightly over 3 hours;
the slowest took almost 30 hours, which resulted in the following
daily crawl to be canceled. To avoid confusion between the time a
crawl started, and the time a speciﬁc page was visited, we recorded
separate timestamps upon each visit to a given page.
3.2 Challenges

Kanich et al. [15] emphasize the importance of ensuring that the
target of a measurement experiment is not aware of the measure-
ment being conducted. Otherwise, the measurement target could
modify their behavior, which would taint the measurements. We
thus waited for a few days after the November crawl to see if the
full crawl had been noticed. Perusing the Silk Road forums [6],
we found no mention of the operators noticing us; our account was
still valid and no one contacted us to inquire about our browsing
activities. We concluded that we either had not been detected, or
that the operators did not view our activities as threatening.

We spent some additional effort making our measurements as
difﬁcult to detect as possible. Since all Silk Road trafﬁc is anonym-
ized over Tor, there is no risk that our IP address could be black-
listed. However, an identical Tor circuit (on our side) could be
repeatedly used if our crawler keeps the same socket open; this in
turn could reveal our activities if the Silk Road operators monitor
the list of Tor circuits they are running, and realize that a ﬁxed Tor
rendez-vous point is constantly being used. Thus, we needed to
ensure that all circuits, including active circuits, are periodically
discarded and new circuits are built. To further (slightly) obfuscate
our activities, instead of always starting at the same time, we started
each crawl at a random time between 10pm and 1am UTC.

Despite all of these precautions, we had to discard some of our
data. On March 7, 2012 a number of changes were implemented
to Silk Road to prevent proﬁling of the site [6]. Whether this was
due to Silk Road operators noticing our crawls or to other activity
is unclear. URL structure changed: item and users, instead of be-
ing referenced by a linearly increasing numeric identiﬁer, became
unique hashes. Fortunately, these hashes initially simply consisted
of a substring of the MD5 hash of the numeric identiﬁer, making it
easy to map them to the original identiﬁers. More problematically,
feedback data, which is crucial to estimating the volume of sales
became aggregated and feedback timestamps disappeared. That is,
instead of having, for an item G sold by S a list of n feedback mes-
sages corresponding to n purchases of G along with the associated
timestamps, Silk Road switched to presenting a list of 20 feedback
messages, undated, across all the items sold by S. In other words,
feedback data became completely useless. Thankfully, due to very
strong pushback from buyers who argued that per-item feedback
was necessary to have conﬁdence in purchases [6], Silk Road op-

1All dates and times are in Universal Time Coordinates (UTC).

Figure 2: Silk Road item page. Each item page contains seller,
price, and shipping information, as well as buyer feedback on
the item.

erators reverted to timestamped, per-item feedback on March 12,
2012. Nevertheless, we had to discard all feedback data collected
between March 7, 2012 and March 12, 2012.

Finally, in several instances, Silk Road went down for mainte-
nance, or authentication was unsuccessful (e.g., because we had
not refreshed the authentication cookie in time), leading to a few
sporadic days of missing data. The largest gaps are two eight-day
gaps between April 10, 2012 and April 17, 2012 due to an acciden-
tal suspension of the collection infrastructure; and between July 12,
2012 and July 19,2012, due to an accidental deletion of the authen-
tication cookie.
3.3 Data collected

We only collect data that is both publicly accessible over the Tor
network, and linked from other Silk Road pages. That is, we do not
collect buyer data, as buyers do not have public “buyer pages.” We
also do not collect stealth listings, or data about sellers when they
operate in stealth mode.

We primarily focus data collection on “item pages,” that is, pages
describing the goods sold on Silk Road. We show an example in
Figure 2. Each item page is bound to a unique item identiﬁer as
part of its URL (integer until March 7, 2012, 10-digit hash after-
wards), and contains the name of the item (“Hacking for beginners”
in Figure 2), a picture, an item category (e.g., “Books”), seller in-
formation (name, percentage of positive feedback, and hyperlink
denoting the seller unique identiﬁer), price (e.g., 0.12 BTC), ship-
ping information, item description, and buyer feedback. We gather
all of this information for each item we crawl, and record a times-
tamp (in UNIX epoch time) every time the page is visited.

Feedback data. Each piece of feedback consists of three ﬁelds:
a rating between 1 and 5, a textual description of the feedback,
and the age of the feedback. Feedback age is expressed in min-
utes, hours, days or months, depending on how old the feedback is.
Hence, we can timestamp much more accurately feedback recently
given at the time of the crawl, than older feedback. This is one of
the reasons for crawling Silk Road daily: the age of feedback less
than a day old can be quite precisely pinpointed.

We record feedback in two different manners. For each crawl of
Silk Road started at time t and lasting until t+τ (τ > 0) , we record
all feedback present on the site in a separate database Dt, thereby
getting a snapshot of the feedback amassed until time t + τ. This
method may miss some feedback. For instance, if we crawl an item

215Category
Weed
Drugs
Prescription
Benzos
Books
Cannabis
Hash
Cocaine
Pills
Blotter (LSD)
Money
MDMA (ecstasy)
Erotica
Steroids, PEDs
Seeds
Heroin
DMT
Opioids
Stimulants
Digital goods

#. items
3338
2194
1784
1193
955
877
820
630
473
440
405
393
385
376
374
370
343
342
291
260

Pct.
13.7%
9.0%
7.3%
4.9%
3.9%
3.6%
3.4%
2.6%
1.9%
1.8%
1.7%
1.6%
1.6%
1.5%
1.5%
1.5%
1.4%
1.4%
1.2%
1.1%

Table 1: Top 20 categories in terms of items available. Products
sold on Silk Road are mostly listed as narcotics or controlled
substances.

lar item on Silk Road, followed by “Drugs,” which encompass any
sort of narcotics or prescription medicine the seller did not want
further classiﬁed. Prescription drugs and benzodiazepines (which
include certain prescription drugs themselves) are also highly pop-
ular. The four most popular categories are all linked to drugs; nine
of the top ten, and sixteen of the top twenty are drug-related. In
other words, Silk Road is mostly a drug store, even though it also
caters some other products. Finally, among narcotics, even though
such a classiﬁcation is somewhat arbitrary, Silk Road appears to
have more inventory in “soft drugs” (e.g., weed, cannabis, hash,
seeds) than “hard drugs” (e.g., opiates); this presumably simply re-
ﬂects market demand.

Item availability. We estimate item availability by recording the
time we ﬁrst saw an item being listed, and the time we last saw it
listed. Items may have been listed and de-listed several times in
the meantime; here we are only looking at the overall lifespan of

Figure 4: Probability that a given item will be available on the
site as a function of time (in days). The dotted lines correspond
to the 95% conﬁdence interval. Most items are only available
for limited periods of time, with a majority of items being avail-
able for less than three weeks.

Figure 3: Distribution of items per category. The plots show the
number of items in each category, ordered by decreasing pop-
ularity (left) and the cumulative distribution of all items over
all categories (right). The 20 most popular categories represent
over 2/3 of all items available.

page at time t + τ1, and a customer leaves feedback at time t + τ2
with τ1 < τ2 < τ, that customer’s feedback will not be recorded as
part of the time-t snapshot. Furthermore, timestamps of feedback
given long before t may be very approximate.
To address this issue, we also record, in a database D, novel feed-
back from one crawl to the next, that is, feedback for which text
did not previously appear in our records for this speciﬁc item. This
method guarantees that feedback timestamps are as accurate as pos-
sible (since they are recorded as soon as the feedback is observed).
Furthermore, we can capture nearly all the feedback present on the
site, without worrying about collection gaps. A drawback of this
method is that it may overestimate the amount of feedback when
there are feedback updates. In particular, new buyers are sometimes
asked to ﬁnalize early, that is, to send feedback immediately af-
ter the online transaction is completed and before receiving goods.
They may elect to update the feedback after delivery of the goods
purchased, which can be weeks later. When this happens, the orig-
inal feedback is replaced on the website by the new feedback, and
the timestamp is updated. However, D contains both the original,
and the updated feedback(s), even though only one sale occurred.
Maintaining both a family (Dt) of database of snapshots of the
site, and a cumulative database D allows us to have lower and upper
bounds on the amount of feedback posted on the site, which in turn
is a useful indicator of sales.

4. MARKETPLACE CHARACTERISTICS
We next provide an overview of the types of goods being sold in

Silk Road, before discussing seller characteristics.
4.1 What is being sold?

Items offered on Silk Road are grouped by categories. There are
approximately 220 distinct categories, ranging from digital goods
to various kinds of narcotics or prescription medicine. In Figure 3,
we plot, on the left-hand side, for each category, the number of
items sold in that category, over the data collected from February 3,
2012 through July 24, 2012. For readability we ordered categories
by decreasing popularity. In total, we found 24,385 unique items
being sold over that period. While a few categories seem to hold
the most items, Silk Road, like other online marketplaces, exhibits
a long-tail behavior, where a large number of items appear to be
unique. This is conﬁrmed by the right-hand graph, where we plot
the cumulative distribution of items as a function of the number of
categories considered. The right-hand graph shows that over two
thirds of all products sold on Silk Road during our data collection
interval belong to one of the top 20 categories, but that, after that,
the cumulative fraction of items only slowly converges to 1.

In Table 1, we take a closer look at the top 20 categories per
number of item offered. “Weed” (i.e., marijuana) is the most popu-

 180 200 220Number of itemsCategories (ranked by popularity) 0 500 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000 3500 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160Number of items per categoryCategories (ranked by popularity) 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 180 200 220C.d.f. of item distribution 0Time (Days) 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 1 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160Survival probability 0216Figure 5: Evolution of the number of sellers. As a point of
comparison, there were only 220 sellers on Nov. 29, 2011.

an item, regardless of its transient availability. To account for the
large number of items still available when we stop collection on
July 24, 2012, we use a standard Kaplan-Meier estimator [16] to
compute the “survival probability,” Sitem(τ ), of a given item after
τ days, that is, the probability an item is listed for more than τ
days. Sitem(τ ) is plotted in Figure 4 along with 95% conﬁdence
intervals.

We discover that a majority of items are listed for less than three
weeks (Sitem(21) = 0.473, 95% c.i. (0.466, 0.479)); and more
than 25% of items disappear within three days (Sitem(3) = 0.745,
95% c.i. (0.739, 0.750)). On the other hand, there are also a few
very long-lived items (on the right-hand side of the graph) that have
been present for the entire collection interval. There may be two
different explanations for the relatively short lifespan of each item:
vendors may run out of stock quickly and de-list their items, pos-
sibly re-listing them later under a slightly different name resulting
in a different item page, or they may elect to make them stealth
listings as soon as they have established a customer base.

Custom listings. Finally, public custom listings are rare. Out of
the 24,385 items we observed, only 745 were explicitly marked as
“custom listings.” This is undoubtedly a lower bound, as custom
listings should be stealth listings, except when sellers are running
tests.
4.2 Who is selling?

Due to the anonymous nature of Silk Road, it is impossible to
discern whether certain sellers use multiple seller pages; econom-
ically, this is not an attractive proposition, as there is a fee associ-
ated with opening a seller account. Likewise, several sellers in the
physical world may offer their goods through a unique seller page
on Silk Road, although this would certainly be a clear indication of
a business partnership. In this discussion we will equate “sellers”
with distinct seller pages.

Evolution over time. In Figure 5, we plot the evolution of the num-
ber of sellers on Silk Road over time, between February 3, 2012
until our last daily crawl (July 24, 2012).

On July 24, 2012, we found 564 distinct sellers with at least one
item listed for sale on Silk Road. This is a marked increase com-
pared to the 220 sellers we had observed during our initial crawl
on November 29, 2011 (not shown on the ﬁgure). The gaps in the
ﬁgure correspond to data collection gaps. An interesting spike oc-
curs around April 20, 2012. April 20 featured a large promotional
sale on Silk Road to mark “Pot Day.” It appears that a number of
sellers entered the marketplace in the week or two prior to this op-
eration; and a non-negligible number left immediately afterwards.
The number of active sellers has been continuously increasing, at

Figure 6: Probability a seller will continue publicly selling
items on the site as a function of time (in days). The dotted
lines denote the 95% conﬁdence interval. About half of the sell-
ers leave the site within 100 days of initial appearance; around
a ﬁfth of the sellers stay for less than three weeks.

Origin

Country
U.S.A.
Undeclared
U.K.
Netherlands
Canada
Germany
Australia
India
Italy
China
Spain
France

Pct.
43.83%
16.29%
10.15%
6.52%
5.89%
4.51%
3.19%
1.23%
1.03%
0.98%
0.94%
0.82%

Acceptable destinations

Country/Region
Worldwide
U.S.A.
European Union
Canada
U.K.
Australia
World. excpt. U.S.A.
Germany
Norway
Switzerland
New Zealand
Undeclared

Pct.
49.67%
35.15%
6.19%
6.05%
3.66%
2.87%
1.39%
1.03%
0.70%
0.62%
0.56%
0.26%

Table 2: Top 12 most frequent shipping origins (left), and ac-
ceptable shipping destinations (right). Certain sellers ship to
multiple destinations, hence totals may exceed 100%.

least since early March 2012. A linear regression ﬁt in Figure 5
gives y = 1.674x + 265.605 (R2 = 0.969), where x is in days,
y the number of active sellers, and the time origin is set to the be-
ginning of our measurement interval. In other words, the increase
in the number of sellers appears linear, with about 50 new active
sellers each month.

However, this simple regression analysis does not accurately re-
ﬂect the fact that many sellers actually leave the marketplace. Over
the measurement interval February 3, 2012– July 24, 2012, we in-
deed found 1,239 distinct sellers were at one point or another pub-
licly listed. We use again a Kaplan-Meier estimator to plot the
probability Sseller(τ ) that a given seller will remain active on the
site for at least τ days. Similar to our discussion about item avail-
ability, we consider a seller is active by subtracting the ﬁrst time
they were seen from the last time they were seen, regardless of their
coming and going in between. Figure 6 plots the function Sseller,
along with 95% conﬁdence intervals. Compared to item turnover,
seller turnover is rather modest. A majority of sellers stay on the
site for approximately 100 days (Sseller(101) = 0.500, 95% c.i.
(0.469, 0.532)); about a ﬁfth of all sellers are present for less than
three weeks (Sseller(21) = 0.813, 95% c.i. (0.791, 0.836)). A
“core” of 112 sellers (9% of all sellers) were present for the entire
measurement interval.

Date (all dates 2012) 300 350 400 450 500 550 60002/0103/0104/0105/0106/0107/0108/01Number of sellers 250Time (Days) 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 1 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160Survival probability 0217Figure 7: Proportion of items in the marketplace as a function
of the number of sellers. We observe fairly high diversity, with
each seller selling at most 1.5% of the total number of items in
Silk Road.

Geographic location. We next inspect the advertised origins and
acceptable shipping destinations for each of the 24,385 items. Ta-
ble 2 shows the top 12 locations for both origin and destinations.
Some items ship to multiple destinations (e.g., Norway, Switzer-
land and European Union) so that the total of the rightmost col-
umn adds up to more than 100%. Most items ship from the United
States, with the United Kingdom a distant second. The Nether-
lands are also strongly represented, which may be due to the rela-
tively permissive narcotics laws in the country. We note a clear bias
toward English-speaking countries, which represent almost two-
thirds of all listed origins. This is not surprising since all com-
munications on Silk Road are in English.

More interestingly, a majority of items ship worldwide, in spite
of the nature of the items, as discussed above. One would think
that sellers may be reluctant to ship narcotics across borders.
It
turns out not to be the case, for a couple of reasons. First, sellers
with an established reputation may often demand that buyers pay
upon purchase, and before delivery of the item. If the item is not de-
livered, the buyer may have very little recourse, particularly if they
have not established a strong reputation in the marketplace. While,
as discussed in Section 2, Silk Road offers an escrow service, dis-
putes arising after “early ﬁnalization” are considerably harder to
mediate by the marketplace operators. Second, the quantities be-
ing sold are generally rather small (e.g., a few grams of marijuana),
and tracing the senders may be a very difﬁcult task as they can
use couriers to mail the items rather than going to the post-ofﬁce
themselves. Third, most sellers use techniques to make package
inspection unlikely – e.g., vacuum sealing, “professional-looking”
envelopes with typed destination addresses [5].
In other words,
sellers can expand their customer base at a relatively low risk for
them. Economic incentives justify worldwide shipping, especially
since sellers can factor in their selling price the risk of package
seizure, and accordingly offer loyal customers at least partial re-
fund guarantees.
Seller ranking. As discussed above, we observed 1,239 unique
seller accounts on Silk Road between February 3, 2012 and July
24, 2012, with between 281 and 564 active at a time. Figure 7
shows the proportion of items in the marketplace as a function of
the number of sellers. No seller is selling a large inventory. Instead,
each seller accounts, at most, for 1.5% of the total number of items
found on Silk Road.

While it does not appear like a given seller (or group of sell-
ers) sells a signiﬁcant proportion of items overall, it could be the
case that a few selected items sell in large quantities. As discussed
in Section 3, we use the amount of feedback collected as a proxy

Figure 8: Number of feedback received per seller (left) and cu-
mulative fraction of all feedback observed over the collection
interval as a function of the number of sellers (right). The top
100 sellers are responsible for approximately 60% of all feed-
back gathered.

Rating Number
178341
5/5
4/5
2442
1447
3/5
520
2/5
1/5
2053

Pct.
96.5%
1.3%
0.8%
0.3%
1.1%

Table 3: Distribution of feedback ratings. A vast majority of
transactions seems to proceed to the satisfaction of the buyers.

for the number of sales made. In Figure 8, we plot, on the left-
hand side, the number of feedback received per seller (where sell-
ers are ranked in decreasing amount of feedback received), and on
the right-hand side the cumulative fraction of total feedback as a
function of the number of sellers considered. These plots show that
a few sellers indeed receive a large amount of feedback, in absolute
terms. For instance, the seller with the largest volume of sales re-
ceived 4,847 feedback messages over the six months we monitored.
4.3 Customer satisfaction

We next discuss customer satisfaction. On a site like Silk Road,
where seller anonymity is guaranteed, and no legal recourse exists
against scammers, one would expect a certain amount of deception.
Most transactions seem, however, to generate excellent feedback
from buyers. Table 3 provides a breakdown of the feedback ratings
from 184,804 feedback instances we collected. 97.8% of feedback
posted was positive (4 or 5 on a scale of 1 to 5). In contrast, only
1.4% of feedback was negative (1 or 2 on the same scale).

Thus, it appears at ﬁrst glance that Silk Road sellers are highly
reliable; or, at the very least, that the escrow system used is effec-
tive at policing the marketplace. We caution, however, against too
rapid an interpretation of this result. Indeed, a study by Resnick
and Zeckhauser [33] shows that Internet users in general dispro-
portionately use positive feedback when rating online experiences.
In fact, over 99% of the feedback in the eBay corpus used in their
study [33] was positive.

Finalizing early. We observe that 20,884 instances of feedback
contain variations of “F.E.,” or “ﬁnalizing early,” accounting for
spelling variations (“ﬁnalize” vs. “ﬁnalise”) and word order (“early
ﬁnalization” vs “ﬁnalize early”). Feedback including such strings
does not, at ﬁrst glance, appear signiﬁcantly worse: only 342 of
them map to a rating of 1 or 2. There is however a signiﬁcant
caveat behind this ﬁnding. A buyer that ﬁnalizes early, leaves a
good rating, and ends up being defrauded, does not have to lower
their rating; doing so is purely voluntary, and other than by sheer al-
truism, there is little incentive to do so. In fact, buyers may not even

Number of sellers 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 1 0 200 400 600 800 1000 1200 1400Fraction of all items in the market 0Sellers (ordered by decreasing volume) 500 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000 3500 4000 4500 5000 0 200 400 600 800 1000 1200Number of feedback messages received 0Number of sellers (ordered by decreasing volume) 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 1 0 200 400 600 800 1000 1200Fraction of all feedback 0218have the possibility of updating their feedback, if a rogue seller
shuts their page down after having absconded with their victims’
money.

5. ECONOMIC ASPECTS

We next present a brief discussion of economic indicators on Silk
Road. We start by looking at the evolution of the prices of a basket
of items. We then turn to estimating transaction volumes that occur
on Silk Road.
5.1 Inﬂation

All transactions on Silk Road are using Bitcoins (BTC). Bit-
coin has been a notoriously volatile currency, going from 1 BTC
being worth around 30 cents in January 2011 to 1 BTC reaching
USD 31.90 in an intra-day high on June 8, 2011, and declining
rapidly back to 1 BTC≈USD 2.5 in late October 2011.

Figure 9: Evolution of the value of a Bitcoin in the three major
currencies used in the countries of the sellers operating on Silk
Road, over our collection interval. Each point corresponds to a
weighted average over a given day. Data is from Mt.Gox [4].

In Figure 9, we plot the evolution of the exchange rate of the
Bitcoin against the three major currencies that sellers use in their
countries, over the duration of our measurements. As can be seen in
the ﬁgure, the Bitcoin exchange rate has remained relatively stable
between the end of February 2012 and early May 2012, oscillat-
ing around 1 BTC≈USD 5, and corresponding values in euros and
pounds. Since then, the Bitcoin has notably appreciated, reaching
close to USD 9 since mid-July 2012, with relatively large ﬂuctua-
tions.

ranging from 1 BTC to approximately 50 BTC. For any time t, the
normalized price compared to origin t0 is deﬁned as P (t)/P (t0).
We plot the normalized prices of these ﬁve items in Figure 10.
On the left, we observe that they quite closely mirror the ﬂuctua-
tions of the Bitcoin exchange rate: as the Bitcoin appreciates, the
prices drop; conversely, a drop in the Bitcoin value results in a price
increase.

Silk Road provides automatic pegging of prices to the US dollar
if sellers so desire. On the right, we plot the normalized price in
US dollars. The plot conﬁrms that there is generally no evidence
of rapid inﬂation (or deﬂation) on Silk Road as all prices remain
roughly within ±10% of their original price. We notice a drop in
price prior to April 20 for all items. Indeed, this price decrease ap-
pears to be part of a promotional campaign for “Pot Day.” A second
observation is that item 2 stops being sold immediately after April
20. The last time it is observed on the site is April 25, before being
de-listed. From discussions in Silk Road forums [6], the seller of
that item abruptly left the marketplace, leaving a large number of
paid, ﬁnalized early, orders unfulﬁlled. In other words, there was
a “whitewashing attack [12],” whereby a seller creates an excel-
lent reputation, before using that reputation to defraud users and
leave the system. In hindsight, the 20% drop in price occurring just
prior to April 20 was considerably steeper than all other promo-
tional discounts. This could have been an indicator that the seller
was not intending to fulﬁll their orders and was instead artiﬁcially
lowering prices in hopes of attracting large numbers of customers
to defraud.
5.2 Transaction volumes

We next provide an estimate of the total amount of daily sales
realized in Silk Road. Obtaining this estimate is problematic, be-
cause, as explained in Section 3, feedback data is relatively noisy.
Feedback can be updated, which results in a timestamp update, and
in discarding the old feedback; and feedback is not always issued
at the time the item is purchased, but instead, when it is received.

We decided to use averages over a sliding window of size 29 days
to try to assess the daily sales volumes. The averaging mechanism
smoothes out potential issues due to delayed feedback. The reason
why we limit ourselves to 29 days is that timestamps on feedback
older than 30 days (i.e., one month) are extremely approximate,
with potential errors of 29 days in the worst case, while timestamps
on feedback less than a month old are accurate within 24 hours.

Figure 10: Evolution of the normalized price of the ﬁve most
sold items on Silk Road in BTC (left) and USD (right). The
evolution closely mirrors the evolution of the Bitcoin exchange
rate, suggesting little inﬂation over our measurement interval.

We look at the evolution of the normalized price of the ﬁve best-
selling items on Silk Road, corresponding to between 1,025 and
1,590 pieces of feedback collected. These ﬁve items are all nar-
cotics, but correspond to four different categories, and have prices

Figure 11: Estimate of the total amount of daily sales (in BTC)
occurring on Silk Road. Each point corresponds to an average
over the prior 29 days.

We present our results in Figure 11. Each point corresponds to
the average daily sales volumes over the past 29 days. The sales
volumes are computed by, for each item, counting the number of
feedback gathered about the item over the past 29 days, and multi-
plying this number by the average price of the item over the last 29

02/0103/0104/01EUR vs. BTC05/0106/01GBP vs. BTC07/0108/01Value of 1 BTCDate (all dates 2012) 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11USD vs. BTC05/01Item 506/0107/0108/01Normalized priceDate (all dates 2012) 0.6Item 3 0.7 0.8 0.9 1 1.1 1.2Item 1Item 4 1.3 1.4 1.502/0103/0104/01Item 2 0.7 0.8 0.9 1Item 1Item 4 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.402/0103/0104/01Item 505/0106/0107/0108/01Item 3Normalized price (in USD)Date (all dates 2012)Item 2Daily volume 5500 6000 6500 7000 7500 8000 8500 9000 950003/0104/0105/0106/0107/0108/01Date (all dates 2012)(BTC, avg. ov. past 29 days) 5000219Item price
ﬁrst $50
$50.01 - $150
$150.01 - $300
$300.01 - $500
$500.01 - $1000
over $1000

Op. commission
10%
8.5%
6%
3%
2%
1.5%

Table 4: Silk Road operator commission schedule (from Jan-
uary 2012). Prior to the establishment of this schedule, the
commission was at a ﬂat 6.23% rate.

Using the new schedule we ﬁnd that Silk Road operators have
seen their commissions increase from over USD 2,200/day in March
2012 to roughly USD 4,000/day in late July 2012. In other words,
even though the volume in Bitcoins may have decreased due to
the Bitcoin rising against the US dollar, the transaction volume in
US dollars, and the corresponding commissions, have signiﬁcantly
increased over our measurement interval. Over the entire measure-
ment interval, we compute that Silk Road operators collect, an av-
erage, roughly 92,000 USD per month in commissions. Stated dif-
ferently, projected over a year, Silk Road operators’ revenue would
probably be around 1.1 million US dollars.
5.4 Silk Road in the Bitcoin economy

days. The estimated daily sales volumes are then simply taken as
the resulting sales volume divided by 29.

We observe that the total volume of sales has been increasing
quite signiﬁcantly, going from approximately 6,000 BTC/day to
approximately 9,500 BTC/day, before seemingly retreating down
to 7,000 BTC/day.

The latter decrease is, however, an artifact of the Bitcoin sharply
appreciating against all major currencies, rather than an indication
of a drop in sales. Over our entire collection interval, the daily
volume of sales approaches 7,665 BTC/day.

Converting to US dollars, using the Bitcoin exchange rate plotted
in Figure 9, we obtain a total sales volume of over USD 1.22 mil-
lion per month when averaged over our measurement interval. This
would correspond to an annual revenue of close to 15 million USD
for the entire marketplace.
5.3 Operator commissions

Silk Road operators collect a commission on all sales realized on
the website. The commission schedule was originally set at 6.23%
of the sales price. In January 2012, a tiered commission schedule
was established, using a model reminiscent of eBay’s fee structure.
The schedule, described in Table 4, is based on amounts in US
Dollars, not in Bitcoins. The ﬁrst USD 50 of a sale are charged a
10% commission fee, then, from USD 50.01 to USD 150, the fee
becomes 8.5%, and further decreases as the value of the item sold
increases.

Finally, we were interested in computing the share of Silk Road
trade in the overall Bitcoin economy. This is a notoriously difﬁ-
cult quantity to estimate, as quantifying the total volume of Bitcoin
transactions is, itself, challenging. In particular, the use of tumblers
and mixers implies that each Silk Road transaction corresponds to
a large number of Bitcoin transactions.

As a potential indicator, we suggest to compare the estimated
total volume of Silk Road transactions with the estimated total vol-
ume of transactions at all Bitcoin exchanges (including Mt.Gox [4],
but not limited to it). The latter corresponds to the amount of money
entering and leaving the Bitcoin network, and statistics for it are
readily available [2].

Over our entire measurement interval, using the 29-day mov-
ing averages earlier described, approximately 1,335,580 BTC were
exchanged on Silk Road. Likewise, computing 29-day moving av-
erages for all transactions recorded in Bitcoin exchanges, approxi-
mately 29,553,384 BTC were traded in Bitcoin exchanges over the
same period. This number is larger than the entire supply of cur-
rency, since each coin is exchanged several times. Comparing the
two numbers shows that Silk Road transactions correspond to about
4.5% of all transactions occurring in exchanges.

This estimate is however not particularly robust. Indeed, for each
item purchased on Silk Road, the buyer has to procure, directly or
indirectly, Bitcoins from an exchange,2 and eventually the seller
may want to redeem funds in their currency, which corresponds
to two exchange transactions. Alternatively, sellers may directly
re-invest Bitcoins, e.g., to purchase other items on Silk Road, in
which case at most one exchange transaction occurs.

The only conclusion we can draw from this comparison is that
Silk Road-related trades could plausibly correspond to 4.5% to 9%
of all exchange trades. While far from being a negligible share
of the Bitcoin economy, speculative trades (i.e., using Bitcoin as a
commodity rather than a currency) still constitute the bulk of all ex-
change trades. A much more thorough analysis would be required
to properly assess the various components of the Bitcoin economy,
but is outside the scope of this paper.

Figure 12: Estimate of the daily commission collected by Silk
Road operators (in USD). Each point corresponds to an average
over the prior 29 days. The progressive rate schedule is given
in Table 4.

In Figure 12, we plot an estimate of the daily commissions col-
lected by Silk Road operators as a function of time. We simply
reuse the previous estimates, and apply both the ﬁxed 6.23% rate,
and the schedule of Table 4 to each item. We ﬁnd that the new
schedule turns out to yield on average a commission corresponding
to approximately 7.4% of the item price.

6. DISCUSSION

While we believe this research may bring up a number of dis-
cussions, and hopefully even start a public policy debate on the ef-
fectiveness of current intervention or prevention strategies for con-
trolled substance abuse, we here choose to narrow our focus to three
areas. First, we discuss the accuracy of our estimates. Second we
provide an overview of the ethical considerations and associated
conclusions we came to during the design of this study. Third, we
brieﬂy evaluate potential intervention policies.

2Buyers could have also mined Bitcoins, but we hypothesize this is
comparatively rare.

06/0107/0108/01Date (all dates 2012)Avg. daily operator commissions(USD, 29−day sliding window) 1500Fixed 6.23% rate 2000 2500 3000 3500 4000 450003/0104/0105/01Progressive rate2206.1 Measurement accuracy of sales volumes

Sales volumes described in Section 5 are obtained through in-
direct indicators (buyer feedback), and as such only represent an
estimate, and not actual, veriﬁed volumes.

First, dishonest sellers could plausibly create a number of buyer
accounts, leave fabricated feedback to enhance their reputation, and
cause our estimates to be inﬂated. Such behavior, however, is usu-
ally relatively easy to spot, and would be reported in Silk Road user
forums dedicated to reviewing sellers. From casual observation, the
risk of ruining one’s reputation for little gain appears to be enough
of a deterrent that fabricated feedback only represents a small frac-
tion of all feedback and does not impact our measurements.

On the other hand, buyers typically leave only one piece of feed-
back per order. When an order contains a large quantity of a given
item, we are underestimating the total volume of sales taking place.
Because this cannot be detected, feedback reports only provide a
conservative estimate of overall sales volume. We also cannot ac-
count for sales coming from stealth listings. Thus, it is likely that
the numbers presented in Section 5 are a lower bound.
6.2 Ethical considerations

Conducting this research yielded some ethical quandaries. Since
we are analyzing data from activity that is, in most jurisdictions,
deemed as criminal, could this work directly lead to arrest or prose-
cution of individuals? If such were the case, should it be published?
We answered negatively to the ﬁrst question. Indeed, the data
we collected is essentially public. We did have to create an account
on Silk Road to access it; but registration is open to anybody who
connects to the site. We did not compromise the site in any way.
Perhaps, bypassing the authentication mechanism and associated
CAPTCHA by reusing an authentication cookie could be construed
as a “hack.” However, we argue this is nothing more than using
a convenient feature that the site operators have willingly offered
their visitors. Indeed, nothing would prevent the site operators from
setting authentication cookies with very short expiry dates.

Considering that the data we obtained is available to anybody,
we do not think this work adds any additional risk for the Silk Road
operators, their customers or their sellers. In fact, as routinely ex-
pressed in user forums [6], Silk Road operators seem to espouse
crypto-anarchist ideals (similar to, for instance, those described by
May [19]) and to that end, willingly make their website – and, as a
result, its data – publicly available.

Research reproducibility.. We also need to allow others to repro-
duce our results. To that effect, we make a subset of the databases
we constructed from our data collection available at https://
arima.cylab.cmu.edu/sr/. We decided not to make avail-
able any textual information (item name, description, or feedback
text) because we could not manually inspect each entry to ensure
that no potentially private information (e.g., URLs, email addresses)
would be released. Among the results presented in this paper, only
the numbers on early ﬁnalization or stealth listings require textual
ﬁelds. All other results should be reproducible with the publicly-
released dataset.

Using the Tor network for measurement research. Another ethi-
cal consideration is linked to the design of the study itself. To ac-
quire the measurements we needed to obtain for analysis, we had
to repeatedly crawl the Silk Road website. This in turn resulted
in extensively using the Tor network for the purpose of this work.
Because Tor is a relatively resource-constrained network, our mea-
surements could have impacted other users. We believe that the
scientiﬁc value of this study, and its potential public policy impact
justiﬁed our use of the network. Monitoring our usage, we realized

that we were downloading between 500 and 800 MB of data per day
over the Tor network for this project. While certainly not negligi-
ble, this remains in the order of a single typical movie download.
However, we do think our usage of the network should be compen-
sated. Partly for this reason, we have recently deployed a fast Tor
relay in our institution’s network.

6.3 Potential intervention strategies

Given the nature of the goods sold on Silk Road, it is quite clear
that various law enforcement agencies have a strong interest in dis-
rupting Silk Road operations. They appear, so far, to have been
unsuccessful since the site is still up and has grown in size since
Sen. Schumer called on the U.S. Attorney General and the head of
the U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency to put an end to it.

We discuss four possible intervention strategies that could be
considered: disrupting the network, disrupting the ﬁnancial infras-
tructure, disrupting the delivery model, and laissez-faire.

Attacking the network. The ﬁrst possible intervention policy is to
disrupt the Tor network.
Indeed, without Tor, Silk Road cannot
operate. This strategy is very likely to be difﬁcult to put in place.
First, Tor has many uses beneﬁcial to society – Silk Road and other
anonymous online marketplaces are far from representing the ma-
jority of Tor trafﬁc, even though this work argues that their impor-
tance is growing. Tor is routinely used by oppressed individuals to
communicate without fear of reprisal. Thus, disrupting the entire
Tor network for the purpose of taking down Silk Road would come
at a high collateral cost.

Furthermore, Tor has shown to be resilient to a large number
of attacks, due to its open design and to the large amount of aca-
demic research it fosters. In particular, Tor hidden services, like
Silk Road, have been the subject of considerable scrutiny [29, 31].
Øverlier and Syverson showed that timing and intersection attacks
could be used to reveal the location of hidden services. Most of
these concerns have been addressed in recent versions of Tor, e.g.,
through the use of persistent “entry guards.” Murdoch described
how covert channels (speciﬁcally, clock skew) could leak informa-
tion allowing to roughly estimate the location of a hidden service.
While a determined adversary, given enough measurements, may
be able to roughly estimate the location of a hidden service, pin-
pointing its exact location, and then being able to prove that the
machine is in fact hosting the hidden content is considerably more
challenging if, as we expect, operators of the hidden service sus-
pect they are being monitored [35]. For instance, the hidden service
could merely act as a proxy to a machine hosted somewhere else.

Attacking the ﬁnancial infrastructure. Another possible disrup-
tion strategy is to attack the ﬁnancial infrastructure supporting Silk
Road. Bitcoin has shown, in the past, to be a very volatile currency.
The June 2011 theft of a large number of Bitcoins from the Mt.Gox
exchange [4] actually caused an abrupt collapse of the currency.
Certain users have been complaining in forums of the uncertainty
on the prices they end up paying due to the instability of Bitcoin and
the various commissions they have to pay to purchase Bitcoins, and
then to purchase items on Silk Road [6].

Thus, an adversary could also attempt to manipulate the currency
to create rapid ﬂuctuations and impede transactions. Besides the
obvious collateral costs associated with such strategies, Silk Road
does provide hedging mechanisms against short-term ﬂuctuations
of Bitcoin. These mechanisms have proven to be enough to allow
Silk Road to prosper despite Bitcoin’s high volatility – but it is
unclear how they would fare in the face of a determined attacker
with large monetary resources.

221Recent research [32] has also shown that Bitcoin transactions
are partially vulnerable to trafﬁc analysis. Indeed, the history of
all transactions is publicly available and network analysis can help
map sets of public keys to individual users and transactions. Since
currency exchanges like Mt.Gox where users redeem Bitcoins for
cash bind public keys to actual identities, Bitcoin anonymity guar-
antees are weaker than most Silk Road users seem to assume, even
though additional intermediaries (tumblers) are in place. In partic-
ular, large Silk Road sellers withdrawing massive amounts of Bit-
coins at once may be relatively easily identiﬁed, unless they take
additional precautions to hide their tracks.
Attacking the delivery model. Another possible angle of action is to
attack the delivery model. That is, to reinforce controls at the post
ofﬁce and/or at customs to prevent illicit items from being delivered
to their destination. One interesting ﬁnding from is that a large
number of sellers seem not to worry about seizures: Most items
are marked as shipping internationally, which means that the risk
of package loss or destruction is viewed as minimal by the sellers.
This is certainly an area that warrants further investigation. In the
United States, coordination between agencies is paramount: Cus-
toms (which can inspect mail) need to work in concert with Drug
Enforcement Agency (DEA) and/or Food and Drugs Administra-
tion (FDA), depending on the type of item concerned. Very often,
seized packages are simply destroyed, or returned to the sender.
Laissez-faire. Finally, a last possible intervention strategy is actu-
ally not to intervene. Politically, this is a questionable proposition.
There are however studies that show that drug abuse prevention
is considerably more cost-efﬁcient than enforcing drug prohibi-
tion [9]. From a public support standpoint, recent laws in Colorado
and Washington state allow the use of marijuana in these states.
Despite the current incompatibility between these laws and federal
regulations, they are certainly a sign of an evolution in the public
attitude toward drug policies. From an economics standpoint, the
relatively rapidly expanding business of online anonymous markets
such as Silk Road, and the logistic difﬁculties in shutting down such
markets may further tilt the balance toward prevention and cure.

As a result, laissez-faire, however untenable it might currently
appear from a policy standpoint, might become more attractive in
light of budget constraints. Although there is no public statement
about it, this could be, to a certain extent, the strategy currently
adopted by law enforcement, seeing that the marketplace has not
met any signiﬁcant disruption to its operations, other than transient
technical issues, in the nine months we studied it, while at the same
time sales volumes have nearly doubled.

7. RELATED WORK

From a technical standpoint, this work is closely related to rapidly
growing literature on measuring cybercrime (e.g., [13, 17, 18, 20,
22, 24, 25, 26, 27, 36]). The techniques used in this paper (periodic
crawls, use of anonymous networks) to collect measurements in-
deed are relatively common to most work in this ﬁeld. The main
difference between this work and the related cybercrime literature
is the object of the measurements. Instead of trying to character-
ize security attacks or attacker behavior, we are instead trying to
describe as precisely as possible an online marketplace. In that re-
spect, our work shares some similarities with works that have tried
to model transactions on eBay [14, 33] or Amazon [28]. However,
we do not focus much on customer reviews to assess seller reputa-
tion, but instead primarily use feedback as proxy for sales volume.
McCoy et al. provided a characterization of trafﬁc using the Tor
network by monitoring a Tor exit node [20]. Different from this
research, we do not actually monitor Tor trafﬁc and instead analyze

data posted to an online marketplace. Motoyama et al. [27] per-
formed related measurements to evidence the existence of online
“mule” recruitment schemes in crowdsourcing marketplaces.

A more recent paper [22] uses leaked transaction databases to
precisely estimate the revenues and proﬁts of three major illicit
online pharmacy afﬁliate networks. Contrary to Silk Road, these
networks heavily resort to spam [18] and search-engine manipula-
tion [17] for advertising. McCoy et al. ﬁnd that, between 2007 and
2011 the gross revenues of each of these illicit afﬁliate networks
range from USD 12.8 million/year to USD 67.7 million/year [22].
Without any advertising other than word-of-mouth, Silk Road, with
its USD 15 million/year transaction volume, appears comparable in
size with these illicit online pharmacy networks. At the same time,
Silk Road caters to a priori more technically sophisticated users,
and proposes an inventory that far exceeds prescription drugs. As
such, it seems to occupy a market niche different from that of
traditional illicit online pharmacies. Interestingly, online pharma-
cies have recently seen their payment systems being targeted [21].
Whether or not this will lead them to move to alternative payment
instruments such as Bitcoin, or will redirect their potential cus-
tomers to marketplaces like Silk Road remains to be seen.

Our work is also close in spirit to a number of studies in the drug
policy realm. We particularly single out the work by Caulkins and
Reuter [8] who perform an econometric analysis of (ofﬂine) drug
markets to discuss their structure. Finally, Molnar et al. [23] noted
that a number of techniques used to perform analysis of controlled
substance markets could be applied to online crime as well. Our pa-
per shows that there may be a convergence between the two ﬁelds.

8. CONCLUSION

We have performed what we believe to be the ﬁrst comprehen-
sive measurement analysis of one of the largest anonymous online
marketplaces, Silk Road. We performed pilot crawls, and subse-
quently collected daily measurements for six months (February 3,
2012–July 24, 2012). We analyzed over 24,000 items, and parsed
over 180,000 feedback messages. We made anonymized versions
of our datasets available in a companion website (https://arima.
cylab.cmu.edu/sr/). We were able to determine that Silk
Road indeed mostly caters drugs (although other items are also
available), that it consists of a relatively international community,
and that a large fraction of all items do not remain available on the
site for very long. We further discovered that the number of active
sellers and sales volume are increasing, corresponding, when aver-
aged over our measurement interval to slightly over USD 1.2 mil-
lion per month for the entire marketplace, which in turn represents
around USD 92,000 per month in commissions for the Silk Road
operators. Informed by these measurements, we discussed some of
the possible intervention policies. Using appropriate procedures
(e.g., persistent entry guards), Tor shows good resilience to de-
anonymization attacks, and, barring operator error, whether it is
possible to obtain conclusive evidence of the exact location of a
hidden service such as Silk Road remains an open question. Eco-
nomic attacks (e.g., artiﬁcially creating large ﬂuctuations in Bit-
coin value), while probably more effective at impeding commerce
on such underground marketplaces, would present signiﬁcant col-
lateral costs. Ultimately, reducing consumer demand (e.g., through
prevention campaigns) is probably the most viable strategy.

9. ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

We thank our anonymous reviewers, anonymous posters in Bit-

coin and Silk Road forums, Gwern Branwen, Gonzague Gay-Bouche-
ry, Jens Grossklags, Steven Kadlec, Tyler Moore, Runa Sandvik,

222and Zooko Wilcox-O’Hearn for feedback and discussions on ear-
lier revisions of this manuscript. This research was partially sup-
ported by CyLab at Carnegie Mellon under grant DAAD19-02-1-
0389 from the Army Research Ofﬁce, and by the National Science
Foundation under ITR award CCF-0424422 (TRUST).

10. REFERENCES
[1] The Armory. http://ayjkg6ombrsahbx2.onion.

Last accessed May 1, 2012.

[2] Bitcoin charts. http://bitcoincharts.com. Last

accessed March 12, 2013.

[3] Black market reloaded.

http://5onwnspjvuk7cwvk.onion/. Last accessed
March 13, 2013.

[4] Mt.Gox – Bitcoin exchange. https://mtgox.com/.

Last accessed March 12, 2013.

[5] Silk Road. http://silkroadvb5piz3r.onion. Last

accessed March 13, 2013.

[6] Silk Road forums.

http://dkn255hz262ypmii.onion. Last accessed
March 13, 2013.

[7] The General Store. http://xqz3u5drneuzhaeo.

onion/users/generalstore. Last accessed March
13, 2013.

[8] J. Caulkins and P. Reuter. What price data tell us about drug

markets. Journal of Drug Issues, 28(3):593–612, 1998.

[9] J. Caulkins, P. Rydell, W. Schwabe, and J. Chiesa.

Mandatory minimum drug sentences: Throwing away the key
or the taxpayers’ money? RAND, Santa Monica, CA, 1997.
[10] A. Chen. The underground website where you can buy any

drug imaginable. http://gawker.com/5805928/
the-underground-website-where-you-can-buy-
any-drug-imaginable.

[11] R. Dingledine, N. Mathewson, and P. Syverson. Tor: The

second-generation onion router. In Proc. USENIX
Security’04, San Diego, CA, Aug. 2004.

[12] M. Feldman, C. Papadimitriou, J. Chuang, and I. Stoica.

Free-riding and whitewashing in peer-to-peer systems. IEEE
J. Select. Areas in Comm., 24(5):1010–1019, 2006.

[13] J. Franklin, V. Paxson, A. Perrig, and S. Savage. An inquiry

into the nature and causes of the wealth of internet
miscreants. In Proc. ACM CCS’07, pages 375–388,
Alexandria, VA, October 2007.

[14] D. Houser and J. Woooders. Reputation in auctions: theory

and evidence from eBay. Journal of Economics &
Management Strategy, 15(2):353–369, Summer 2006.
[15] C. Kanich, K. Levchenko, B. Enright, G. Voelker, and

S. Savage. The Heisenbot uncertainty problem: challenges in
separating bots from chaff. In Proc. USENIX LEET’08, San
Francisco, CA, Apr. 2008.

[16] E. Kaplan and P. Meier. Nonparametric estimation from

incomplete observations. Journal of the American Statistical
Association, 53:457–481, 1958.

[17] N. Leontiadis, T. Moore, and N. Christin. Measuring and

analyzing search-redirection attacks in the illicit online
prescription drug trade. In Proc. USENIX Security’11, San
Francisco, CA, Aug. 2011.

[18] K. Levchenko, N. Chachra, B. Enright, M. Felegyhazi,
C. Grier, T. Halvorson, C. Kanich, C. Kreibich, H. Liu,
D. McCoy, A. Pitsillidis, N. Weaver, V. Paxson, G. Voelker,
and S. Savage. Click trajectories: End-to-end analysis of the

spam value chain. In Proc. IEEE Security and Privacy’11,
Oakland, CA, May 2011.

[19] T. May. Crypto anarchy and virtual communities, Dec. 1994.

Available from http://groups.csail.mit.edu/
mac/classes/6.805/articles/crypto/
cypherpunks/may-virtual-comm.html.

[20] D. McCoy, K. Bauer, D. Grunwald, T. Kohno, and D. Sicker.
Shining light in dark places: Understanding the tor network.
In Proc. PETS’08, Leuven, Belgium, July 2008.

[21] D. McCoy, H. Dharmdasani, C. Kreibich, G. Voelker, and

S. Savage. Priceless: The role of payments in
abuse-advertised goods. In Proc. ACM CCS’12, Raleigh, NC,
Oct. 2012.

[22] D. McCoy, A. Pitsillidis, G. Jordan, N. Weaver, C. Kreibich,

B. Krebs, G. Voelker, S. Savage, and K. Levchenko.
Pharmaleaks: Understanding the business of online
pharmaceutical afﬁliate programs. In Proc. USENIX
Security’12, Bellevue, WA, Aug. 2012.

[23] D. Molnar, S. Egelman, and N. Christin. This is your data on

drugs: Lessons computer security can learn from the drug
war. In Proc. NSPW’10, Concord, NH, Sept. 2010.

[24] T. Moore and R. Clayton. Examining the impact of website

take-down on phishing. In Proc. APWG eCrime’07,
Pittsburgh, PA, Oct. 2007.

[25] T. Moore and B. Edelman. Measuring the perpetrators and

funders of typosquatting. In Proc. Financial Crypto.’10,
pages 175–191. Springer-Verlag, 2010.

[26] M. Motoyama, D. McCoy, K. Levchenko, S. Savage, and
G. Voelker. An analysis of underground forums. In Proc.
ACM IMC’11, Berlin, Germany, Nov. 2011.

[27] M. Motoyama, D. McCoy, K. Levchenko, S. Savage, and
G. Voelker. Dirty jobs: The role of freelance labor in web
service abuse. In Proc. USENIX Security’11, San Francisco,
CA, Aug. 2011.

[28] S. Mudambi and D. Schuff. What makes a helfpul online

review? A study of customer reviews on Amazon.com. MIS
Quarterly, 34(1):185–200, March 2010.

[29] S. Murdoch. Hot or not: revealing hidden services by their

clock skew. In Proc. ACM CCS’06, pages 27–36, Alexandria,
VA, Nov. 2006.

[30] S. Nakamoto. Bitcoin: a peer-to-peer electronic cash system,

Oct. 2008. Available from
http://bitcoin.org/bitcoin.pdf.

[31] L. Øverlier and P. Syverson. Locating hidden servers. In

Proc. IEEE Security and Privacy’06, pages 100–114,
Oakland, CA, May 2006.

[32] F. Reid and M. Harrigan. An analysis of anonymity in the

Bitcoin system, May 2012.
http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.4524.

[33] P. Resnick and R. Zeckhauser. Trust among strangers in

Internet transactions: Empirical analysis of eBay’s reputation
system. Adv. in Applied Microecon., 11:127–157, 2002.

[34] X. Roche. HTTrack: Website copier.

http://www.httrack.com.

[35] B. Shebaro, F. Perez-Gonzalez, and J. Crandall. Leaving
timing-channel ﬁngerprints in hidden service log ﬁles. In
Proc. Digital Forens. Res. Workshop’10, Portland, OR, 2010.

[36] Y.-M. Wang, M. Ma, Y. Niu, and H. Chen. Spam

double-funnel: connecting web spammers with advertisers.
In Proc. WWW’07, pages 291–300, Banff, AB, Canada,
2007.

223