On the Evolution of the Internet Economic Ecosystem

Richard T. B. Ma

ADSC Illinois and National

University of Singapore

John C. S. Lui

The Chinese University of

Hong Kong

tbma@comp.nus.edu.sg

cslui@cse.cuhk.edu.hk

Vishal Misra

Columbia University

misra@cs.columbia.edu

ABSTRACT

The evolution of the Internet has manifested itself in many ways:
the trafﬁc characteristics, the interconnection topologies and the
business relationships among the autonomous components.
It is
important to understand why (and how) this evolution came about,
and how the interplay of these dynamics may affect future evolution
and services. We propose a network aware, macroscopic model that
captures the characteristics and interactions of the application and
network providers, and show how it leads to a market equilibrium
of the ecosystem. By analyzing the driving forces and the dynam-
ics of the market equilibrium, we obtain some fundamental under-
standings of the cause and effect of the Internet evolution, which
explain why some historical and recent evolutions have happened.
Furthermore, by projecting the likely future evolutions, our model
can help application and network providers to make informed busi-
ness decisions so as to succeed in this competitive ecosystem.

Categories and Subject Descriptors

C.2.5 [Computer-Communication Networks]: Local and Wide-
Area Networks—Internet; C.4 [Performance of Systems]: [Mod-
eling techniques, Performance attributes]

Keywords

Internet Evolution; Economics; IP Transit; Content Delivery

1.

INTRODUCTION

The Internet has been and is still changing unexpectedly in many
aspects. Started with elastic trafﬁc and applications, e.g., emails
and webpage downloading, we have seen signiﬁcant rise in inelas-
tic trafﬁc, e.g., video and interactive web trafﬁc, across the Internet.
According to [19], from 2007 to 2009, web content trafﬁc had in-
creased from 41.68% to 52%, reaching more than half of the total
Internet trafﬁc. From a network perspective, the Internet originated
from government-owned backbone networks, i.e., the ARPANET,
and then evolved to a network of commercial Autonomous Systems
(ASes) and Internet Service Providers (ISPs). Meanwhile, ISPs
formed a hierarchical structure and were classiﬁed by tiers, with
higher tier ISPs cover larger geographic regions and provide transit
service for smaller/lower tier ISPs. However, recent study [17] has
reported that large content providers, e.g., Google and Microsoft,
are deploying their own wide-area networks so as to bring content
closer to users and bypassing Tier-1 ISPs on many paths. This is
known as the ﬂattening phenomenon of the Internet topology.

Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference
Committee (IW3C2). IW3C2 reserves the right to provide a hyperlink
to the author’s site if the Material is used in electronic media.
WWW 2013, May 13–17, 2013, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
ACM 978-1-4503-2035-1/13/05.

Changes in the content or network topology do not happen inde-
pendently. Rather, they are driven by the changes in the business
relationships among the players in the Internet ecosystem. Not sur-
prisingly, we have observed dramatic changes in the business re-
lationships between the content providers and the ISPs and among
the ISPs themselves. Traditionally, ISP settlements were often done
bilaterally under either a (zero-dollar) peering or in the form of a
customer-provider relationship. Tier-1 ISPs, e.g., Level 3 [5], often
charge lower tier ISPs for transit services and connect with each
other under settlement-free peering. However, the Tier-1 ISPs do
not have any guarantee in their proﬁtability as the Internet evolves.
For instance, we have seen exponential decrease (around 20% a
year) in IP transit prices [23]. Also, peering disputes happened,
e.g., the de-peering between Cogent [3] and Level 3 in 2005, where
the lower tier ISPs that are closer to content or users refused to
pay for the transit charge. This leads to the recent debate of net-
work neutrality [26], which reﬂects the ISPs’ willingness to pro-
vide value-added and differentiated services and potentially charge
content providers based on different levels of service quality.

The situation is further complicated by the emergence of new
players in the ecosystem: Content Delivery Networks (CDNs), e.g.,
Akamai [1] and Limelight [6], and high-quality video streaming
providers, e.g., Netﬂix [7]. From content providers’ perspective,
CDNs can deliver their content faster and more efﬁciently; from
local ISPs’ perspective, CDNs can reduce the trafﬁc volume from
upstream, saving transit costs from their providers. Very often, ISPs
do not charge the CDNs for putting servers in their networks. When
the video streaming giant Netﬂix moved online a few years ago, its
trafﬁc surged immediately. Now it accounts for up to 32.7% of
peak U.S. downstream trafﬁc [8] and its trafﬁc volume is higher
than that of BitTorrent [9] applications. Netﬂix used Limelight,
one of the biggest CDNs, for content delivery, and later, the Tier-1
Level 3 also obtained a contract to deliver Netﬂix’s trafﬁc. Since
most of the Netﬂix customers are based in the U.S., they often use
Comcast, the biggest access ISP, as the last-mile access provider.
Interestingly, Comcast managed to enter a so-called paid-peering
relationship [16] with Level 3 and Limelight, under which the Tier-
1 ISP and the CDN have to pay the access ISP for higher bandwidth
on the last mile connection. This has totally reversed the nominal
customer-provider relationship where the Tier-1 ISP was the ser-
vice provider and should have received payment for connectivity.

It is important to understand how these changes come about, and
what the driving factors are behind these changes. In this work, we
model the Internet evolution from a macroscopic view that captures
the cause and effect of the evolution of the individual players in the
ecosystem. Our model expends the traditional view of a single best-
effort service model to capture multiple value-added services in the
Internet. The main approaches and contributions are as follows.

849• We model the preferences and business decisions of the ap-
plication providers for purchasing Internet services, based on
the application characteristics and the price and quality of the
transport services (Section 2).

• We characterize the market price and the market share of the
Internet transport services by using general equilibrium the-
ory in economics (Section 3).

• We analyze the driving forces of the evolution of the Inter-
net economic ecosystem (Section 4), which provide quali-
tative answers (Section 4.6) to questions like: 1) Why have
the IP transit prices been dropping? 2) Why have the CDNs
emerged in the ecosystem? 3) Why has the pricing power
shifted to the access ISPs? 4) Why are the large content
providers building their own wide-area networks toward users?

• We incorporate Internet price and capacity data into our model,

and quantitatively ﬁt historical prices and project the future
evolution of the ecosystem and its price trends (Section 5).

• We demonstrate how our model can help the network providers
to make business decisions, e.g., capacity expansion and peer-
ing decisions, based on the future price projections under var-
ious scenarios (Section 5.3).

Our paper sheds new light on the macroscopic evolution of the
Internet economic ecosystem and concretely identiﬁes the driving
factors of such an evolution. In particular, our model provides a
tool to analyze and project the evolutionary trends of the ecosys-
tem. The fundamental understanding of the preferences of applica-
tion providers and the market equilibrium of the Internet services
will also help the business decisions of the application and network
transport providers to succeed in this competitive ecosystem.

2. THE MACROSCOPIC AP-TP MODEL

We start with a macroscopic model of the Internet ecosystem
that consists a set of Application Providers (APs) and Transport
Providers (TPs). The TPs differ by their service qualities and the
prices they charge. We model and analyze the APs’ choice of TP
based on their own characteristics: how proﬁtable the AP is and
how sensitive the AP trafﬁc is to the obtained level of service qual-
ity. In essence, this macroscopic model can help us to understand
the decision process of these players in the Internet ecosystem and
how these decisions may inﬂuence their business relationships.

2.1 The Application and Transport Providers
We consider an Internet service market of a geographic region
and denote (M, N ) as a macroscopic model of the ecosystem, con-
sisting of a set M of TPs and a set N of APs. The APs provide the
content/service for the Internet end-users; the TPs provide the net-
work infrastructure for delivering the APs’ data to their end-users.
Our notion of an AP broadly includes content providers, e.g.,
Netﬂix, online services, e-commerce, and even cloud services, e.g.,
Amazon EC2 [2]. Our notion of a TP is based on the APs’ point
of view. In other words, the transport services provided by the TPs
are for the APs to reach their customers/users. The scope of a TP
is broader than an ISP, and it includes CDNs. ISPs, depending on
different taxonomies [16, 15, 21], include 1) eyeball/access ISPs
that serve the last-mile for end-users, 2) backbone/Tier 1 ISPs that
provide transit services for lower tier ISPs, and 3) content ISPs that
serve APs and host content servers. A TP can be an ISP of any
type. Although access and transit ISPs traditionally do not have
business relationships with APs explicitly, with the emergence of

video streaming APs, e.g., Netﬂix, we have seen more and more
APs’ direct or indirect contracts with the access and transit ISPs.
For example, Level 3 contracted with Netﬂix for content delivery
and Comcast managed to charge Level 3 and Limelight via paid-
peering contracts (for delivering Netﬂix’s trafﬁc to Comcast’s cus-
tomer base faster) [23]. Although “whether ISPs should be allowed
to differentiate services/charges for APs” is hotly debated under
the network neutrality [26] argument, legitimate service differentia-
tions will also induce more extensive business relationships among
the APs and ISPs. In general, a TP can be any facilitator that de-
livers content to end-users. An important example of a TP that
does not even own network infrastructures in the current Internet
ecosystem is Akamai [1], which represents the CDNs.

We characterize each TP I ∈ M by its type, denoted as a triple
(pI , qI , νI ). pI denotes the per unit trafﬁc charge for the APs to use
TP I. qI denotes the service quality of TP I, e.g., queueing delay or
packet loss probability. Without loss of generality, we assume that
qI ≥ 0 and smaller values of qI indicate better quality of services.
νI denotes the bandwidth capacity of TP I. We characterize each
AP i ∈ N by its utility function ui(·). In particular, we deﬁne
ui(pI, qI ) as AP i’s utility when it uses TP I, which depends on
the service quality qI and the per unit trafﬁc charge pI .

Assumption 1. ui(·, ·) is non-increasing in both arguments.

Assumption 2. For any set M of TPs, each AP i ∈ N chooses to
use a TP, denoted as Ii ∈ M, that satisﬁes

ui(pIi , qIi ) ≥ ui(pI , qI ), ∀ I ∈ M.

The above assumes that each AP is rational and chooses a TP that
provides the highest utility. Technically, there might exists mul-
tiple TPs that provide the same amount of utility for the AP. We
assume that every AP has certain preference to break the tie and
choose one of the TPs. We further denote NI ⊆ N as the set of
APs that choose to use TP I, or the market share of TP I, deﬁned as
NI = {i ∈ N : Ii = I}. Based on Assumption 1 and 2, if two TPs
I, J have the same quality, i.e., qI = qJ , then they have to price
equally, i.e., pI = pJ ; otherwise, the one with higher price will
not obtain any market share. As TPs differ only by price pI and
quality qI from the APs’ perspective, we aggregate the TPs that
have the same value pair (pI , qI ) into a single TP with a capacity
that equals the summation of individual TPs’ capacity. Similarly, if
a TP performs service differentiations, we conceptually treat it as
multiple TPs, each with a service class (pI , qI ) and the correspond-
ing capacity νI . More precisely, our abstraction of a TP I models
a competitive market segment that provides a quality level qI and
has a total capacity νI .

2.2 Throughput and Types of the APs

Although the utility function ui can be used to model all the
characteristics of AP i, the setting does not yet capture the traf-
ﬁc dynamics and the proﬁtability of the APs. We model AP i’s
proﬁtability by denoting vi as its per unit trafﬁc revenue. This rev-
enue is related to the AP’s core business, e.g., online adverting or
e-commerce, and we do not assume how it is generated. We de-
note λi(·) as AP i’s throughput function, where λi(qI ) deﬁnes the
aggregate throughput of AP i toward its consumers under a quality
level qI . Thus, we model any AP i’s utility as its total proﬁt (proﬁt
margin multiplied by the total throughput rate), deﬁned by

ui(pI , qI ) = (vi − pI )λi(qI ).

(1)

Assumption 3. For any AP i ∈ N , λi(·) is a non-increasing func-
tion with αi = limqi→0 λi(qi) and limqi→∞ λi(qi) = 0.

850Assumption 3 says that the throughput will not decrease if an
AP uses a better service. λi reaches a maximum value of αi when
it receives the best quality qi = 0 and decreases to zero if the
quality deteriorates inﬁnitely, i.e., qi tends to +∞. In particular, we
consider the following canonical form of the throughput function:

λi(qI ) = αie−βiqI ,

(2)

where AP i’s throughput is characterized by a parameter βi that
captures its sensitivity to the received quality qI .

I ∈ M} and N ′ = {(αi, κ3βi, κ1vi + κ2) : i ∈ N }, then system
(M′, N ′) satisﬁes NI (M′, N ′) = NI (M, N ) for all I ∈ M.

Theorem 2 says that if 1) the AP proﬁtability vi and the TP price
pI are linearly scaled in the same way, and/or 2) the quality qI of
the TPs and the sensitivity βi of the APs scale inversely at the same
rate, then the APs’ choices of TP will not change. This result will
help us normalize different systems and make a fair comparison of
various solutions.

Theorem 3. For any κ > 0 and a ﬁxed set N of APs, let M′ =
{(pI , κqI , νI ) : I ∈ M}, then for all i ∈ N , 1) qI ′
≤ κqIi if
κ > 1 and 2) qI ′

≥ κqIi if κ < 1.

i

i

Theorem 3 says that if all the qualities in the market deteriorate
(κ > 1) linearly at the same rate, APs will not use worse quality
TPs than before. The opposite is also true: when qualities improve
linearly, APs will not use better quality TPs than before.

3. MARKET EQUILIBRIUM

In this section, we start with the deﬁnition of a market equilib-
rium, under which the prices of the TPs are stable and the claimed
service qualities can be achieved when APs choose their best TPs.
We then proceed to characterize the market equilibrium and calcu-
late the equilibrium prices.

3.1 The Existence of Market Equilibrium

Although any TP I claims to provide service quality qI , it cannot
keep its promise if more APs choose this TP than its capacity can
support. We model the achieved quality QI (λI , νI ) as a function
of the actual throughput λI going through I and its capacity νI .

Assumption 4. The achieved quality QI (λI , νI ) for any TP I ∈
M is non-decreasing in λI and non-increasing in νI .

Deﬁnition 1. A set X ⊆ N of APs is feasible for TP I with quality
qI , if QI(cid:0)λI (X ), νI(cid:1) ≤ qI , where λI (X ) = Pi∈X λi(qI ) deﬁnes
the induced throughput of the set X of APs under quality qI .

In a market M of TPs, each TP would adjust its strategies to
accommodate its customer APs’ trafﬁc demand and keep its ser-
vice quality promise. For example, if the current capacity of TP
I cannot support quality qI , it might 1) expend its capacity νI , 2)
increase price pI , or 3) reduce the quality level qI . Next, we deﬁne
a market equilibrium where the APs’ demand are feasible and the
TPs’ strategies are stable.

I

′

′

′

′

I

I ≥ pmin
I ), νI(cid:1) ≤ qI , λI (N

Deﬁnition 2. Let pmin
be the cost (or minimum price) of TP I.
Let M′ be identical to M except for p′
I 6= pI for some I ∈ M
I be the set of APs choosing TP I under M′. A system
and N
(M, N ) forms a market equilibrium if 1) all APs’ aggregate de-
mands are feasible, i.e., QI(cid:0)λI (NI ), νI(cid:1) ≤ qI , ∀I ∈ M, and 2)
each price pI maximizes the utilization of capacity for acceptable
throughput at TP I, i.e., for any p′
with the corresponding
I ) ≤ λI (NI ).
N

I satisfying QI(cid:0)λI (N
One way to understand the above deﬁnition of a market equilib-
rium is that given a set N of APs and a set {qI : I ∈M} of service
qualities for them to choose from, the price pI and capacity νI
of each market segment should be consistent in that 1) when the
APs make their choices of TP, their expected service quality can be
achieved and, 2) the capacities of the TPs are not under-utilized,
unless the charge pI reaches the TP’s cost pmin
. If APs’ quality
expectations are not fulﬁlled, their choices of TP will change. Fur-
thermore, if capacity νI is under-utilized with pI > pmin
, then the
market segment I is not correctly priced. That being said, we as-
sume that none of the market segment is controlled by a monopoly,

I

I

Figure 1: Throughput of different type of APs.

Figure 1 illustrates the throughput of two APs with parameters
(α1, β1) = (10, 1.0) and (α2, β2) = (6, 0.1) under varying ser-
vice qualities, interpreted as network delays in this case, along the
x-axis. AP 1 represents a Netﬂix-type of application that is more
sensitive to delay and has a high maximum rate α1 = 10 Mbps;
however, AP 2 represents a Google-type of query application that
is less sensitive to delay. We observe that when delay increases, the
throughput of delay-sensitive application decreases sharply, while
the delay-insensitive application decreases only mildly.

Because αi is just a linear scaling factor of the throughput, it
does not affect the AP’s preference over different TPs. Conse-
quently, APs with the same (βi, vi) value pairs will choose the
same TP; and therefore, we can conceptually aggregate them as
a single AP. Similar to a TP I representing a market segment, each
AP i can be interpreted as a group of APs with the same charac-
teristics and αi represents the aggregate maximum trafﬁc intensity,
which depends on the number of APs in the group and the indi-
vidual trafﬁc intensities. Although αi does not play a role in the
AP’s decision of choosing TPs, we will see later that αi reﬂects
the demand of the APs and affects the market prices of the TPs. In
summary, based on our throughput model, we deﬁne

ui(pI, qI ) = (vi − pI )λi(qI ) = αi(vi − pI )e−βiqI .

(3)

Similar to each TP I’s type (pI , qI , νI ), we can characterize any
AP i’s type as another triple (αi, βi, vi).

2.3 APs’ Choice of Transport Providers

When facing a set M of TPs, each AP i’s best choice Ii depends
on the price-quality pairs {(pI , qI ) : I ∈ M} and its own charac-
teristics (βi, vi). The APs’ choices satisfy the following results.

Theorem 1. For a ﬁxed set M and any two APs i and j with βj ≥
βi and vj ≥ vi, their chosen service qualities satisfy qIi ≥ qIj .

Theorem 1 says that if an AP j is more proﬁtable and more sen-
sitive to service quality than another AP i, then the chosen quality
of AP j will be at least as good as that of AP i. This property holds
regardless how the services are priced.

Theorem 2. For any κ1, κ2, κ3 > 0, and system (M, N ), we de-
ﬁne a scaled system (M′, N ′) as M′ = {(κ1pI +κ2, qI /κ3, νI ) :

851which might want to under-utilize capacity and keep a higher price
for proﬁt-maximization. We will summarize and discuss the limi-
tations of our model in Section 5.4. The interesting aspect here is
that although pI , like all other prices, mainly depends on the supply
νI and the demand NI of the APs, all the TPs (or market segments)
are correlated, which serve substitutions for the APs.

In practice, the TPs might not have enough capacities to accom-
modate all APs. As a result, market prices will rise and some APs
cannot afford the prices and will not use any of the TPs. However,
under Assumption 2, each AP needs to choose a TP even it can-
not afford to use any of the TPs, so a market equilibrium might not
exist under this assumption. To ﬁx this minor technical issue, we
make the following assumption to allow any AP not to use any of
the TPs if they all induce negative utilities.

Assumption 5. There always exists a dummy TP D ∈ M with
quality qD = ∞ and price pD = 0.

By Assumption 3, quality qD always induces zero throughput for
any AP, and therefore, the dummy TP guarantees a zero utility and
can accommodate as many APs as possible in equilibrium. Effec-
tively, the set ND models the APs that cannot afford to use any TP
in the market in reality.

Theorem 4. For any ﬁxed set N of APs and any set M of TPs with
ﬁxed values of pmin
, qI and νI for all I ∈ M, there exists a set
{pI : I ∈ M} of prices that makes (M, N ) a market equilibrium.

I

Although TPs might be able to adopt new technologies to im-
prove or differentiate their services, the quality that they can pro-
vide is often physically constrained by the nature of the TP, for
example, if a TP is a Tier 1 ISP, it cannot guarantee end-to-end de-
lays for the customers unless the access ISP’s link is not congested.
Similarly, although TPs might execute a long-term capacity plan-
ning, the supply of capacity does not change in a small time scale.
Compared to service quality and capacity, market prices change
more frequently and easily. Theorem 4 says that even in a small
time-scale where prices adapt to market conditions, prices might
still converge to an equilibrium, which reﬂects the short-term mar-
ket structure of the Internet ecosystem.

3.2 Characteristics of a Market Equilibrium

In theory, one might ﬁnd multiple sets of prices that make (M, N )

a market equilibrium. For example, from any existing equilibrium,
one might ﬁnd a TP I such that with only a small change in pI ,
no APs will change their choices. This new price also constitutes a
market equilibrium. In practice, these price differences can happen
by two reasons. First, even without a monopoly in a market seg-
ment, oligopolistic providers might implicitly collude on the price
so that they keep a relatively high price simultaneously. When one
of them starts to reduce price, the price of that segment will con-
verge to a lower price. Second, the preferences of the APs are quite
different so that the price change in one segment might not affect
the demand choices of the APs.

Deﬁnition 3. A market equilibrium (M, N ) is competitive if there
does not exist any pmin
I sat-
isfying QI(cid:0)λI (N

I < pI with the corresponding N

I ), νI(cid:1) ≤ qI .

I ≤ p′

′

′

If the AP types are very diverse or each market segment consists
of many competing providers, one can focus on the above deﬁnition
of a competitive market equilibrium. Technically, a competitive
market equilibrium might not exist, since the minimum price might
not exist when all the feasible equilibrium prices form an open set.
However, prices in practice have a minimum unit, e.g., one cent,
and we can always ﬁnd such a competitive market equilibrium.

Notice that our model is not limited to competitive market equi-
libria, i.e., if a segment I is not competitive enough, we can use
a higher price for pI . As a result, competitive equilibrium prices
might be biased downward if the real market structure is not per-
fectly competitive; nevertheless, our qualitative results do not de-
pend on whether the market equilibrium is competitive or not.

Theorem 5. Let N ′ = {(καi, βi, vi) : i ∈ N } and M′ =
{(pI , qI , κνI ) : I ∈ M} for some κ > 0. If (M, N ) is a market
equilibrium and the quality function QI (·, ·)s are homogenous of
degree 0, i.e., QI (λI , νI ) = QI (κλI , κνI ), ∀κ > 0, I ∈ M, then
(M′, N ′) is a market equilibrium too.

Theorem 5 says that if the quality only depends on the ratio of
the incoming trafﬁc rate and the capacity, then when the number of
APs (and their trafﬁc intensity) and the capacities scale at the same
speed, the original market equilibrium prices will remain in equi-
librium. If we consider the queueing delay as the quality metric,
because of statistical multiplexing, the average queueing delay re-
duces when both arrival rate and service rate scales up at the same
rate. In this case, Theorem 5 also implies that each TP I can accept
more and more trafﬁc for a ﬁxed delay qI , and as a consequence,
the market prices will move downward in a new equilibrium.

3.3 Calculating Market Equilibrium Prices

We denote µI as the maximum throughput that TP I can accept

when it can still fulﬁll the quality qI , deﬁned as

µI = arg max

λI

QI (λI , νI ) ≤ qI .

(4)

λI

For instance, if the quality metric is the average queueing delay
under M/G/1 systems and TP I implements a FIFO scheduling
policy, by the Pollaczek-Khinchine mean formula, QI(cid:0)λI , νI(cid:1) =
E[R], where E[R] denotes the expected residual service
νI −λI
E[R] ≤
time of jobs. If we want λI to be feasible, we need
qI ⇒ λI ≤
νI = µI . We deﬁne ηI = µI /νI as the
maximum acceptable throughput per unit capacity, or the conver-
sion factor from raw capacity to achievable throughput. Notice that
given a ﬁxed capacity νI , the smaller delay TP I wants to provide,
the smaller maximum amount of trafﬁc it can accept. For the M/G/1
case, ηI tends to 0 when the required quality qI tends to 0, which
shows a convex cost structure for the TP.

E[R]+qI

νI −λI

λI

qI

Based on the monotonicity of QI (Assumption 4), a market equi-

librium can be characterized by using µI s as follows.

Deﬁnition 4. A system (M, N ) forms a market equilibrium if for
all TP I, 1) λI (NI ) ≤ µI , and 2) there does not exist p′
I ≥ pmin
I
I ) ≤ µI .
with the corresponding N

I satisfying λI (NI ) < λI (N

′

′

Based on the above alternative deﬁnition of a market equilib-
rium, we can calculate the competitive equilibrium prices without
evaluating QI repeatedly as follows.

Calculate Price Equilibrium(cid:0)N , {pmin
1. Set pI = ∞ for all TP I ∈ M;
2. Calculate µI for all TP I ∈ M based on qI and QI ;
3. while there exists p′

I ∈ [pmin

, qI , νI : I ∈ M}(cid:1)

, pI ) such that λI (NI ) ≤

I

I

′

λI (N

I ) ≤ µI
set pI = p′
I;

4.
5. return {pI : I ∈ M};

In the above algorithm, we do not restrict which TP I to choose
in step 3 if multiple TPs satisfy the condition. However, any se-
quence of updates will make the price vector converge, because

852quite efﬁcient if two tiers of services are provided; thus, qB and
qC can be considered as the higher and lower tier services of such
an IP transit market. To differentiate the three qualities, we set
qA : qB : qC = 1 : 5 : 25. We vary ρ from 0 to 1, where the sys-
tem’s total capacity varies from extremely scarce to abundant. We
discretize the AP domain with 50 levels of vi and βi, which forms
2500 types of APs. We assume that APs’ proﬁtability and quality-
sensitivity follow probability distributions Fv and Fβ respectively,
and αi follows the joint distribution of Fv and Fβ . We use the var-
ious distributions in Figure 2 for Fv and Fβ . For instance, when

Figure 2: Common distributions: geometric, uniform, reversed
geometric, binomial with p = 0.2, 0.5 and 0.8.

a geometric distribution Geo is used to describe Fβ, it models the
scenario where most of the AP trafﬁc are elastic and the amount
of quality-sensitive trafﬁc decreases exponentially with its sensitiv-
ity level βi. The binomial distributions BN (p) are often used to
approximate a normal distribution of the proﬁtability vi, or quality
sensitivity βi, where p determines the mean value.

4.2 Impact of TP Capacity on Prices

In this subsection, we study how the capacities of the TPs affect
the equilibrium prices. We initially set (qA, qB, qC ) = (0.2, 1, 5).
We will evaluate how the quality may impact the equilibrium prices
in the next subsection.

each pI will only be decreasing monotonically until convergence.
Similarly, we can also set pI = pmin
for all TPs, and the price
vector will increase monotonically until convergence.

I

Based on Theorem 2 and 5, we also have the following result.

Corollary 1. Let N ′ = {(καi, κ3βi, κ1vi + κ2) : i ∈ N }
and M′ = {(κ1pI + κ2, qI /κ3, ν ′
I ) : I ∈ M} for positive
κ, κ1, κ2, κ3 with µ′
If (M, N ) is a
market equilibrium, then (M′, N ′) is a market equilibrium.

I = κµI for all I ∈ M.

Although the prices of the TPs inﬂuence the APs’ choices, which
further affect the capacity utilization of the TPs, equilibrium prices
are the ﬁxed points in which both the APs’ choices and the TPs’
prices do not change. However, external factors could move the
resulting equilibrium. In the next section, we will study these fun-
damental driving forces for the evolution of the Internet economic
ecosystem. By understanding these factors, we will know why the
market prices change and why certain evolutions happen.

4. PRICE DYNAMICS IN EQUILIBRIUM

In this section, we look deeper into the qualitative dynamics of
the equilibrium market prices. In particular, we explore how the
different characteristics of the APs and the TPs can affect the mar-
ket prices in equilibrium.

4.1 Evaluation Setting

Each AP i is characterized by three parameters (αi, βi, vi); each
TP I is characterized by three parameters (pI , qI , νI ). To make
a fair comparison between equilibrium prices under different set-
tings, we carefully normalize the system parameters as follows. We
deﬁne vmax = max{vi : i ∈ N }, βmax = max{βi : i ∈ N },
and pmin = min{pmin
: I ∈ M}. Based on Theorem 2, we
normalize any system (M, N ) by factors κ1 = 1/(vmax − pmin),
κ2 = pmin/(vmax − pmin), and κ3 = 1/βmax. As a result, we
normalize each βi or vi within the interval [0, 1] and the equilib-
rium prices will also be scaled accordingly with [0, 1]. If pscaled
is
the derived market equilibrium price in the normalized system, we
can recover the real market price pI as

I

I

pI = (vmax − pmin)pscaled

I

+ pmin.

I

I

When the normalized price pscaled
tends to 0, it reﬂects that the real
market price pI goes down to the cost pmin; when pscaled
tends to
1, it reﬂects that the real market price pI goes to the maximum
AP proﬁtability vmax. We describe the TPs’ capacity in terms of
the maximum acceptable rates µI s. We deﬁne α = Pi∈N αi,
µ = PI∈M µI and the ratio ρ = µ/α. Based on Corollary 1, any
price equilibrium sustains when αis and µI s scale at the same rate.
Thus, we normalize the APs’ aggregate maximum trafﬁc intensity
α to be 1. We deﬁne σI = µI /µ as the capacity share of TP I, and
under the normalized system, each TP I has µI = σI ρ.

After the above normalization, we can describe any system by

the following four parameters:

1. a set of qualities {qI : I ∈ M},

2. the normalized aggregate capacity ρ,

Figure 3:
(qA, qB, qC ) = (0.2, 1, 5), µA = 0.05 and µC = 0.25.

in market prices as µB varies: with

Shift

3. the distribution of αi over the domain [0, 1]2 of (βi, vi),

4. the capacity distribution {σI : I ∈ M}.

We focus on three different quality types: 1) qA, the highest qual-
ity for real-time content delivery, 2) qB, medium quality, mostly
for web applications, and 3) qC , the best-effort quality, mostly
for elastic trafﬁc. As analyzed in [25], IP transit markets will be

In Figure 3, we ﬁx µA = 0.05, µC = 0.25 and vary µB from
0 to 1 along the x-axis. The three sub-ﬁgures show the equilib-
rium prices when αi follows the joint distributions of (Fβ, Fv) =
(U ni, U ni), (Geo, U ni) and (Geo, BN (0.5)) respectively. We
observe that when µB is scarce, equilibrium price pB is close to
(but strictly less than) the price pA of its upper class TP. When µB
increases, pB diverges from pA and moves to the price pC of its
lower class TP. When µB becomes abundant, its market price goes

853Figure 4:
(qA, qB, qC ) = (0.2, 1, 5) and (Fβ, Fv) = (Geo, U ni).

in market prices as ρ varies: with

Shift

Figure 5:
(qA, qB, qC ) = κ(0.2, 1, 5) where κ = 0.2, 1 and 5.

in market prices as ρ varies: with

Shift

down to the minimum price after pC . In general, when the capac-
ity of a particular TP, i.e., µB, increases, it drives all equilibrium
prices down; however, the prices of higher quality TPs, e.g., pA,
might not go down to the minimum price.

In the rest of this section, we often use Fβ = Geo, which models
the case where more APs were elastic, and Fv = BN (0.5), which
approximates that the AP proﬁtability follows a normal distribution
centered at vi = 0.5. Note that our qualitative results do not depend
on these settings.

In Figure 4, we vary the system capacity ρ from 0 to 1 along the

x-axis. αi follows the joint distribution (Fβ, Fv) = (Geo, BN (0.5)).
The sub-ﬁgures show the equilibrium prices when the capacity ratio
σA : σB : σC equals 1 : 3 : 5, 1 : 1 : 1 and 5 : 3 : 1 respectively.
In all three cases, when the total capacity ρ is small, all equilibrium
prices are very close and high. When we increase ρ, all market
prices drop. By comparing the price curves across the three subﬁg-
ures, we observe that when the capacity share of the higher class
TP is smaller (the left subﬁgure), 1) the three market prices differ
more from each other, 2) pC drops faster, and 3) all the prices drop
to the minimum price faster than the other two cases. Because price
differences exist in practice, we will use σA : σB : σC = 1 : 3 : 5
in the rest of this section.

Lessons (the TP capacity effects on prices) leaned:

• Capacity expansion drives market prices down.

• The capacity expansion of a particular TP I would affect not
only its own price pI , but also other TPs’ prices, due to the
substitution effect of TP I to other TPs.

• When TP I’s capacity share σI is small (big), its market price

pI is close to the price of its next higher (lower) class TP.

4.3 Impact of TP Quality on Prices

Let us explore how the quality qI of the TPs may affect the equi-
librium prices. We use the setting that the capacity distribution fol-
lows σA : σB : σC = 1 : 3 : 5 and αi follows the joint distribution
(Fβ, Fv) = (Geo, BN (0.5)).

In Figure 5, we keep the quality ratio qA : qB = qB : qC = 1 : 5
and use (qA, qB, qC ) = κ(0.2, 1, 5), where κ equals 0.2, 1 and 5
in the three subﬁgures. We vary the system capacity ρ from 0 to 1
along the x-axis. We observe that when all the TPs improve their
quality by the same ratio, i.e., κ = 0.2, the market prices of the TPs
are very close; when all the TPs degrade their quality by the same
ratio, i.e., κ = 5, the market prices of the TPs diverge greatly. This
observation can be explained by Theorem 3. When κ decreases and
all qualities are improved, more APs will choose lower class TPs,
which move the prices of the lower class TPs upward and the prices
of upper class TPs downward. As a result, all TPs prices will move
closer. On the other hand, when κ increases and all qualities are

Figure 6: Shift in market prices as ρ varies: with qB = 1,
qA : qB = qB : qC = 1 : κ where κ = 2,5,100.

degraded, more APs will choose to upper class TPs, which move
the prices of the upper class TPs upward and the prices of lower
class TPs downward. This will further diverge the price differences
among the TPs with different qualities.

In Figure 6, we keep qB = 1 and vary the quality ratio qA : qB =
qB : qC = 1 : κ, where κ equals 2, 5 and 10. We observe that the
price differences are positively correlated with the quality ratio. In
particular, when quality ratio is high, e.g., κ = 10, the price of
the lowest class TP, i.e., pC, drops earlier and sharper when the
total capacity ρ expands. At the same time, higher class TPs can
still maintain a non-zero market price even after pC drops down
the minimum price. The general trend is that when the quality ratio
keeps increasing, the price curves will move higher and toward the
left. In the rest of this section, we will often use the quality ratio
1 : 5 and (qA, qB, qC ) = (0.2, 1, 5) for our evaluations. Again,
our qualitative results do not depend on this setting.

Lessons (the TP quality effects on prices) leaned:

• The market prices of the TPs would be close to (far from) one
another if the quality ratio is small (big) or/and the overall
qualities of the market are high (low).

• In reality, the qualities provided by the TPs are becoming bet-
ter and better, which implies that market prices for different
services might converge.

• High-end market segments can still maintain a price differ-
ence if they can differentiate their quality from the lower
class TPs substantially.

Next, we will see that the TP price differences also depend on the
demand side: the characteristics of the APs.

4.4 Impact of AP Wealth on Prices

Let us explore how the proﬁtability distribution Fv may affect
the equilibrium prices. We still keep σA : σB : σC = 1 : 3 : 5 and

854(qA, qB, qC ) = (0.2, 1, 5). αi follows the joint distribution of Fβ
and Fv, where Fβ is distributed as Geo.

the x-axis. By doing this, we simulate the cases where the APs be-
come more and more sensitive to quality when the mean sensitivity
increases with p.

Figure 7: Shift in market prices as ρ varies: (qA, qB, qC ) =
(0.2,1,5), σA : σB : σC = 1 : 3 : 5, Fβ = Geo.

Figure 9: Shift of market prices when we vary AP’s sensitiv-
ity to quality: with σA : σB : σC = 1 : 3 : 5, ρ = 0.5,
(qA, qB, qC ) = (0.2, 1, 5) and Fβ = BN (p).

Figure 8: Shift in market prices as ρ varies: (qA, qB, qC ) =
(0.2,1,5), σA : σB : σC = 1 : 3 : 5, Fβ = Geo.

In Figure 7, we vary ρ from 0 to 1 along the x-axis and plot
the equilibrium prices where the proﬁtability distribution Fv fol-
lows a binomial distribution BN (p) parameterized by p = 0.2, 0.5
and 0.8 respectively. By doing this, we simulate the normal distri-
butions of the APs’ wealth varying the mean value from small to
large. We observe that despite the difference in mean proﬁt of the
APs, pC drops to the minimum price at the same time. The price
curves in all cases keep the same shape; however, they scale dif-
ferently on the vertical axis. This indicates that the market prices
depend on how much the APs are able to pay for the services, and
how they demand for the TPs based on their values of (βi, vi).

In Figure 8, we vary Fv to be Geo, U ni and ReGeo. We ob-
serve that the shapes of the price curves are very different: prices
decrease convexly, linearly and concavely in the three subﬁgures.
In general, how fast the prices drop depends on the density of the
APs whose proﬁtability are around that price range, and the shape
of the curves look like the complimentary cumulative distribution
function (CCDF) of Fv.

Lessons (the AP wealth effects on prices) leaned:

• The market prices of the TPs are positively correlated with

the mean proﬁtability of the APs.

• At a certain price range where the density of the APs is high
(low), more (less) competition among the APs drives the
prices close to (far below) their proﬁtability.

4.5 Impact of AP Quality-Sensitivity on Prices
In this subsection, we study how the quality sensitivity distribu-
tion Fβ affects the equilibrium prices. We set σA : σB : σC =
1 : 3 : 5 and ρ = 0.5. In the following cases, Fβ follows a bi-
nomial distribution BN (p), where we vary the parameter p along

Figure 10: Shift of market prices when we vary AP’s sensitivity
to quality: with σA : σB : σC = 1 : 3 : 5, ρ = 0.5, Fv =
BN (0.5) and Fβ = BN (p).

In Figure 9, we ﬁx (qA, qB, qC ) = (0.2, 1, 5) and vary Fv to
be U ni, BN (0.5) and Geo in the three sub-ﬁgures. We observe
that although the proﬁtability distribution affect the absolute price
values, the shape of the price curves look similar. When the quality
sensitivity of the APs increases, the lowest quality service price,
i.e., pC, drops sharply and quickly. Although pA and pB drops ac-
cordingly with pC, after pC reaches the minimum price, both pA
and pB rebound. With further increase in quality sensitivity, pB
shows a trend to decrease slowly; however, pA always stays at a
high level. When the APs become more sensitive to quality, more
and more APs start to move to higher class TPs. As a result, the ca-
pacity µC becomes under-utilized, which also drives pC down very
quickly. Although pC’s drop pulls down the overall market prices,
more APs move to higher class TPs, which make TPs A and B in
demand, and therefore, keep pA and pB steadier. After pC reaches
the minimum price, pC stops decreasing. As the APs’ quality sen-
sitivity keeps increasing, even the minimum market price of pC
becomes relatively expensive to the APs. This makes even more
APs move to TP A and B and drives pA and pB upward.

In Figure 10, we ﬁx Fv = BN (0.5) and vary the qualities to be
(qA, qB, qC ) = κ(0.2, 1, 5), where κ = 0.5, 1 and 2. We observe
the same trends as in Figure 9 that pC drops quickly and sharply to
the minimum price as the APs’ quality sensitivity increases. As κ
increases, all the price curves move to the left and the price drop of
lower class TPs becomes quicker and sharper. This also coincides
with the observations made in Figure 5 that when the qualities de-
grade, the price of the lower class TP drops much quicker.

In the above illustrations, we vary the distribution Fβ . It is also
i = ξβi for some

possible that all the APs’ sensitivity increase by β′

855ξ > 1. By Theorem 2, we can rescale the system by κ3 = 1/ξ, as if
the APs keep their quality sensitivity constant and all the qualities
become poorer. By Theorem 3 and the TP quality effect result in
Figure 5, we also conclude that more APs will prefer higher quality
TPs and the price of the lower quality TPs will drop sharply.

Lessons (the AP quality-sensitivity effects on prices) leaned:

4) Why are the large content providers building their own wide-
area networks toward users? Mostly because the APs become
more sensitive to service quality, they cannot rely on the transit
providers to deliver content. As high quality services are limited
and access ISPs would obtain more pricing power, large APs might
consider establishing their own networks toward users as a cheaper
alternative than paying access ISPs for better services in the future.

• When the APs become more sensitive to the service quality,

the price of lower class TPs will drop quickly.

• When the price of the lowest quality TP goes down to its
cost, the prices of higher quality TPs might increase due to
their relatively cheap prices and high demand.

4.6 Internet Evolution: Some Explanations

By understanding the factors that drive the market equilibrium,
we reason about the evolution of the Internet ecosystem and reach
plausible answers to the questions raised in Section 1. We do not
claim that our answers below are exhaustive and the limitations of
our model will be discussed in Section 5.4.
1) Why have the IP transit prices been dropping? The capacity
effect tells that the price drop can be a consequence of the capac-
ity expansion of the transit providers. Compared to the capacities
at the last-miles, the capacity in the backbone grows faster than
demand and is abundant [14]. Also, the price drop in better qual-
ity services, i.e., CDN prices, will drive the transit prices further
down. The quality effect tells that when the transit quality differs
a lot from the CDN services, the prices will diverge greatly. The
wealth effect tells that since the majority of the elastic APs might
not be very proﬁtable, transit providers cannot fully utilize its ca-
pacity and charge a high price at the same time. This is also why
they are looking for providing value-added and differentiated ser-
vices. Last, the AP quality-sensitivity effect tells that when AP
trafﬁc becomes more and more inelastic, e.g., the surge of Netﬂix
trafﬁc, lower quality service will become less valuable and there-
fore its price will drop quickly.
2) Why have the CDNs emerged in the ecosystem? The capacity
effect tells that when the capacity of higher quality service is small,
it can maintain a price difference with the lower quality services.
The quality effect tells that if a CDN service’s quality differs a lot
from the transit services, it can be priced much higher. When the
capacity of the transit market was limited and priced high, the de-
mand for even higher quality service drove the price for potential
CDN services even higher. This explains why CDNs emerged in
the ﬁrst place. The wealth effect tells that when the APs’ proﬁtabil-
ity is not high, the market prices cannot be high. However, due to
the low cost structure of the CDNs, they can still help small APs
who could not afford the infrastructure to support large demand.
The AP quality-sensitivity effect further tells that with the trafﬁc
being more and more sensitive to quality, the price of high quality
CDN can sustain at a high level.
3) Why has the pricing power shifted to the access ISPs? This
can be partially explained by the AP quality-sensitivity effect and
the TP quality effect. When the AP trafﬁc becomes more and more
sensitive to service quality, they are more willing to pay for the
higher quality services. Because access ISPs are physically closer
to the users, their service quality is naturally much better than other
providers who have to go through the access ISPs to reach the
end-users anyways. Consequently, the difference in service quality
makes it possible for the access ISPs to charge services at higher
prices. Furthermore, Comcast’s monopolistic position in the U.S.
market could be another reason, under which its price will be set
higher than the competitive market price under Deﬁnition 3.

5.

INTERNET’S ECONOMIC EVOLUTION
Besides understanding how each isolated factor might affect the
market prices, we incorporate ground truth data [10, 19, 4, 11], e.g.,
the historical trends of the TPs’ capacity expansion and the APs’
characteristics, and project possible future price dynamics of the
Internet ecosystem. Through this, our model can help the TPs make
various long-term business decisions. Let us demonstrate this.

We take a macroscopic view and categorize network services as
two types: M = {A, B}. B models the IP transit service that pro-
vides interconnection based on “best-effort”; A models the CDN or
private peering type of service that provides better service quality
than B. We categorize the APs as three types: N = {a, b, c}. a
models the video or realtime interactive applications that are very
sensitive to quality. b models the web applications that are elastic
but more tolerate to quality than type a applications. c models the
inelastic applications, e.g., email and P2P ﬁle download.

By Corollary 1, we know that when quality and the sensitiv-
ity parameters scale inversely, the equilibrium remains the same;
therefore, without loss of generality, we set qB = 1 as the baseline
best-effort quality level. We set the quality sensitivity parameters
to be (βa, βb, βc) = (10, 1, 0.1). Under this setting, type a APs
would only obtain e−10 ≈ 4.5−5 of their maximum throughput
under qB, which implies that the best-effort service cannot support
quality sensitive applications. Also, under qB, a type b AP could
get e−1 ≈ 37% of its maximum throughput; however, a type c AP
could get e−0.1 ≈ 90% of its maximum throughput. When mea-
sured by delay, the quality of service for realtime applications often
require the delay to be at the order of milliseconds [27], compared
to the best-effort service delays at the order of seconds. Thus, we
choose qA = 0.01 to reﬂect the same order of magnitude of service
difference. As a result, even type a APs would obtain e−0.1 ≈ 90%
of their maximum throughput under the better quality level qA.

Next, we try to estimate the capacity of the TPs on the Internet.
We take the Equinix Internet Exchange at New York (Equinix-NY)
as a reference market and estimate the capacities based on the data
provided by PeeringDB [10]. At the end of year 2011, there were
102 ISPs listed on at Equinix New York Exchange in PeeringDB,
among which 44 use Open peering policy and the remaining 58
use either Selective or Restricted peering policy. The total capacity
was around 21 Tbps, among which the ISPs using Open peering
policy contributed 7 Tbps and the remaining ISPs contributed 14
Tbps. Since Selective and Restricted policies are used for private
and often paid-peering agreements, we set νA and νB to be 14 and
7 Tbps, for the reference time of the year 2011.

From the Global Internet Geography [4] report, between 2007
to 2011, the international Internet capacity increased six-fold and
the bandwidth to the U.S. had increased nearly 50 percent per year.
To a ﬁrst approximation, we assume that the capacity ν of the TPs
increases 50% per year. We deﬁne α = αa + αb + αc and ωa,
ωb and ωc as the weight of the throughput upper bound of each
application type. Given α and the weight of AP i, we obtain αi as

αi =

ωi

ωa + ωb + ωc

α,

∀ i = a, b, c.

856Based on the observed trafﬁc distribution of various applications in
[19], we set (ωa, ωb, ωc) = (2%, 75%, 23%) for the year 2007,
and assume that the weight for video (ωa), web (ωb) and inelastic
applications (ωc) increase at an annual growth rate of 150%, 50%
and 20% respectively. Notice that IP transit prices are often quoted
for per Mbps-month, while CDN prices are often quoted for per
terabit. If capacity is fully utilized 24/7, $1 per Mbps-month can
be translated into $0.386 per terabit. We assume that the maximum
per unit trafﬁc revenue for the APs is $10 Mbps-month and the
APs’ revenue are uniformly distributed.

5.1 A First Approximation Benchmark

We use our macroscopic model to ﬁt the historical prices starting
from 2007 and project future Internet prices. In a ﬁrst approxima-
tion, we choose the following parameters.

1. α at year 2007 (denoted as α07) equals 10 Tbps.

2. α increases at an annual growth rate rα = 22%.

3. ηA = µA/νA = 0.3 and ηB = µB/νB = 0.9.

might be less competitive and could charge a much higher price;
therefore, when the industry becomes more competitive, we expect
to see much sharper price drops.

Based on the trend from 2007 to 2011, our model projects that
both the IP transit and CDN prices will further drop, at an even
faster rate, and IP transit price will drop to its minimum price. Of
course, this projection is based on the assumption that the capacity
of the TPs will keep expanding at the 50% annual rate. We will
further discuss potential trends of future prices in a later subsection.

5.2 Sensitivity of the Benchmark

In this subsection, we show the sensitivity of our price projection

with respect to the chosen parameters.

Figure 12: Sensitivity to initial demand α07 and rate rα.

First, we want to see how the demand parameter α affects the
price dynamics. Figure 12 shows a projection of service prices
when the initial value α07 and the growth rate rα change. In the left
subﬁgure, we vary α07 to be 9 and 11 Tbps compared to the bench-
mark value of 10 Tbps. We observe that the prices are positively
correlated with α07. In the right subﬁgure, we vary the growth rate
rα to be 20% and 24% compared to the benchmark value of 22%.
We observe that the prices again are positively correlated with rα.
Both tells that when the demand increases, so do the prices.

Figure 13: Sensitivity to capacity utilization ηA and ηB .

Second, we want to see how the capacity utilization factor ηI =
µI /νI affects the price dynamics. Figure 13 shows a projection of
Internet service prices when ηA and ηB vary from the benchmark.
In the left subﬁgure, we vary ηA to be 0.2 and 0.4 compared to
the benchmark value 0.3. In the right subﬁgure, we vary ηB to be
0.8 and 1.0 compared to the benchmark value 0.9. We observe that
the all prices are negatively correlated with the capacity utilization
factors. Also, the IP transit prices are sensitive to both ηA and ηB;
while the CDN prices are only sensitive to its utilization factor ηA.

Figure 11: Historical price and future price projection.

In Figure 11, the upper left subﬁgure plots the achievable through-
put for the CDN (µA) and IP transit (µB) services from 2007 to
2014 and the lower left subﬁgure plots the maximum demand αa,
αb and αc for the same time period. The upper right subﬁgure plots
the price dynamics of both IP transit and CDN services and the
lower right subﬁgure plots the percentage of price change for both
services. We observe that average price drop from 2007 to 2011 is
approximately 20%, which coincides with the price drop surveyed
in the Global Internet Geography [4] report. Also, the price of IP
transit is below $2 per Mbps-month, very close to the mean of IP
transit prices, where the lowest price fell to $1 per Mbps-month.

Compared to the video delivery pricing [11], our price projec-
tion shows that the CDN price drops around 8% annually from
2007 to 2011, and reaches $5.67 per Mbps-month, or $2.18 per
terabit. This price is lower than the $7.5 per terabit price for APs
with volume of 5PB data and the price drop is slower than the ob-
served 20% price drop in the CDN industry [11]. The difference
could come for two reasons: 1) since CDN service charges based
on trafﬁc volume, we cannot assume that the APs would always use
the capacity 24/7, and therefore, the CDN providers should charge
some premium on top of the basic per Mbps per month charge, 2)
in contrast to our competitive model for CDN service, the industry

8575.3 Price Projection and TP Business Decisions
Now, we demonstrate that by using the price projection from our
model, we can help the TPs to make business decisions on 1) how
aggressive the TPs should expend their capacity, and 2) whether the
TPs should/would tend towards Open or Selective peering policies.

Figure 14: Price projection under various capacity ratios νA :
νB and capacity expansion rate rν .

To answer the ﬁrst question, we vary the capacity growth rate of
the TPs rν to be 40% and 60%, compared to the historical bench-
mark rate 50% and plot the price projections in the left subﬁgure
of Figure 14. We observe that when the capacity grows at 60% per
year, both the CDN and IP transit price drop fast and the IP transit
price will down to its cost next year; however, when the growth rate
is 40%, the IP transit price will be decreasing at a very slow rate.
These observations tell us that the ISPs providing IP transit services
might want to slow down their investment in capacity expansion;
however, CDN providers and ISPs that sell private-peering and QoS
might want to continue to expand their capacity when their proﬁt
margins are still above zero. As the price of IP transit drops, we
believe that the investment in the transit capacity will slow down,
which will also stabilize the price of the IP transit services.

To answer the second question, we vary the capacity ratio νA :
νB from the benchmark ratio 2 : 1 (14 Tpbs : 7 Tbps) to 3 : 1 and
3 : 2 for the year 2014 in the right subﬁgure. These two projections
model the scenarios where ISPs will tend to be more Selective and
more Open in their peering policies respectively. We observe that
if more ISPs are going to use an Open peering policy, the IP transit
price will drop to its cost quickly; otherwise, the IP transit price will
get closer to the CDN price and be stable. This observation implies
that ISPs would have strong incentives to move towards Selective
peering policies if possible, which coincides with the reality that
the access ISP, Comcast, started to use private peering exclusively.
In summary, we predict that although the CDN price will still be
dropping, the price of IP transit will be more stable. Furthermore,
the capacity expansion will slow down and more ISPs will tend to
use Selective rather than Open peering policies in the near future.

5.4 Limitations of the Model

First of all, our general equilibrium model implicitly assumes
that each market segment is competitive. In practice, some mar-
ket segment could be lack of competition and form a monopolis-
tic or oligopolistic market structure. Thus, the real market prices
will be higher than what our model predicts. Second, our equi-
librium model does not capture the off-equilibrium and transit dy-
namics that could happen in practice. Third, our model is in nature
macroscopic, and it does not capture detailed information like peer-
ing agreement, topology, trafﬁc patterns and etc. Nevertheless, our
model does capture the type of different services the TPs provide

via implicitly encoding all the relevant information into the quality
level qI . From the APs’ point of view, they do care about quality
rather than other details of the TPs. Fourth, since our focus is on the
transit/CDN market, our model does not intend to capture the end-
user market aspects. For example, modeling the bundle of access
services and other service differentiations are out of scope. Last
but not the least, our macroscopic model provides some qualita-
tive reasons for the Internet evolution, which we do not claim to be
exhaustive. There might be additional factors/reasons that are not
captured by our model, e.g., the lack of competition in the market.

6. RELATED WORK

Many empirical studies have been tracking the evolution of the
Internet using measurements and public data sets [19, 15, 17, 24,
12]. Labovitz et al. [19] measured the inter-domain trafﬁc between
2007 and 2009, and observed the changes in trafﬁc patterns as well
as the consolidation and disintermediation of the Internet core. Gill
et al.
[17] collected and analyzed traceroute measurements and
showed that large content providers are deploying their own wide-
area networks. Dhamdhere et al. [15] conﬁrmed the consolidation
of the core of the Internet, that brings the content closer to users.
Akella et al. [12] used measurements to identify and characterize
non-access bottleneck links in terms of their location, latency and
available capacity. At the edge of the Internet, Sundaresan et al.
[24] studied the network access link performance measured directly
from home gateway devices. We focus on a macroscopic model of
the Internet ecosystem that captures the application trafﬁc going
through the network transport service providers.

Many works [13, 16, 21, 22, 25, 20, 18] focused on the modeling
perspective of the Internet evolution. Chang et al. [13] presents an
evolutionary model for the AS topologies. Lodhi et al. [20] used an
agent-based model to study the network formation of the Internet.
Motiwala et al. [22] used a cost model to study the Internet trafﬁc.
Valancius et al. combined models and data to study the pricing
[25] structure of the IP transit market. Faratin et al. [16] and Ma
et al.
In this
work, we take a holistic view and analyze the business decisions
and evolutions of the APs and TPs altogether.

[21] studied the evolution of the ISP settlements.

7. CONCLUSIONS

We proposed a network aware, macroscopic model to explain the
evolution of the Internet. Our model captures 1) the business de-
cisions of the APs, 2) the pricing and competition of the TPs, and
3) the resulting market equilibrium of the ecosystem. By analyz-
ing how the AP characteristics (i.e., trafﬁc intensity, proﬁtability
and sensitivity to quality), and the TP characteristics (i.e., quality,
price and capacity, affect the market equilibrium), we obtain fun-
damental understanding of why historical and recent evolutions of
the Internet have happened. With further estimations of the trends
in trafﬁc demand, capacity growth and quality improvements, our
model can also project the future evolution of the Internet ecosys-
tem. This model provides a tool for the Internet players to better
understand their business and risks, and help them to deal with their
business decisions in the complicated and evolving ecosystem.

Acknowledgement

This study is supported by the Human Sixth Sense Programme at
the Advanced Digital Sciences Center from Singapore’s Agency
for Science, Technology and Research (A*STAR), Ministry of Ed-
ucation of Singapore AcRF grant R-252-000-448-133, and the Na-
tional Science Foundation grants CNS-1017934 and CCF-1139915.

8588. REFERENCES
[1] Akamai. http://www.akamai.com/.
[2] Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2).

http://www.amazon.com/ec2.

[3] Cogent Communications, Inc.

http://www.cogentco.com.

[4] "Global Internet Geography." Telegeography Research.

http://www.telegeography.com/.

[5] Level 3 Communications, Inc.

http://www.level3.com.

[6] Limelight Networks. http://www.limelight.com/.
[7] Netﬂix, Inc. http://www.netflix.com.
[8] Netﬂix takes up 32.7% of Internet bandwidth, CNN News.
http://edition.cnn.com/2011/10/27/tech/
web/netflix-internet-bandwith-mashable.

[9] Netﬂix Trafﬁc Now Bigger Than BitTorrent. Has Hollywood

Won? GIGAOM News. http://gigaom.com/
broadband/netflix-p2p-traffic/.

[10] PeeringDB. http://www.peeringdb.com/.
[11] Video Delivery Pricing for Q4 2011.

http://www.cdnpricing.com/.

[12] A. Akella, S. Seshan, and A. Shaikh. An empirical evaluation
of wide-area Internet bottlenecks. In Proceedings of the ACM
conference on Internet measurement (IMC), 2003.

[13] H. Chang, S. Jamin, and W. Willinger. To peer or not to peer:

Modeling the evolution of the Internet’s AS-level topology.
In Proceedings of IEEE Infocom, Barcelona, Spain, 2006.

[14] C. Courcoubetis and R. Weber. Pricing Communication
Networks: Economics, Technology and Modelling. John
Wiley & Sons Ltd., 2003.

[15] A. Dhamdhere and C. Dovrolis. Ten years in the evolution of

the Internet ecosystem. In Proceedings of the 8th ACM
SIGCOMM conference on Internet measurement (IMC 08),
pages 183–196, Vouliagmeni, Greece, October 2008.

[16] P. Faratin, D. Clark, P. Gilmore, S. Bauer, A. Berger, and

W. Lehr. Complexity of Internet interconnections:
Technology, incentives and implications for policy. The 35th
Research Conference on Communication, Information and
Internet Policy (TPRC), 2007.

[17] P. Gill, M. Arlitt, Z. Li, and A. Mahanti. The ﬂattening

Internet topology: natural evolution, unsightly barnacles or
contrived collapse? In Proceedings of the 9th international
conference on Passive and active network measurement,
2008.

[18] H. Haddadi, S. Uhlig, A. Moore, R. Mortier, and M. Rio.
Modeling Internet topology dynamics. ACM SIGCOMM
Computer Communication Review, Volume 38 Issue 2, April
2008.

[19] C. Labovitz, D. McPherson, S. Iekel-Johnson, J. Oberheide,
and F. Jahanian. Internet inter-domain trafﬁc. In Proceedings
of the ACM SigComm, New Delhi, India, 2010.

[20] A. Lodhi, A. Dhamdhere, and C. Dovrolis. GENESIS: An

agent-based model of interdomain network formation, trafﬁc
ﬂow and economics. In Proceedings of IEEE Infocom,
Miami FL, March 2012.

[21] R. T. B. Ma, D. Chiu, J. C. Lui, V. Misra, and D. Rubenstein.

On cooperative settlement between content, transit and
eyeball Internet service providers. IEEE/ACM Transactions
on Networking, 19(3), June 2011.

[22] M. Motiwala, A. Dhamdhere, N. Feamster, and A. Lakhina.
Towards a cost model for network trafﬁc. ACM SIGCOMM
Computer Communication Review, 42(1), January 2012.

[23] W. Norton. The Internet Peering Playbook: Connecting to

the Core of the Internet. DrPeering Press, 2011.

[24] S. Sundaresan, W. de Donato, N. Feamster, R. Teixeira,

S. Crawford, and A. Pescap´l´l. Broadband Internet
performance: A view from the gateway. In Proceedings of
ACM SIGCOMM, Toronto, Ontario, Canada, August 2011.

[25] V. Valancius, C. Lumezanu, N. Feamster, R. Johari, and

V. Vazirani. How many tiers? Pricing in the Internet transit
market. In Proceedings of ACM SIGCOMM, Toronto,
Ontario, Canada, August 2011.

[26] T. Wu. Network neutrality, broadband discrimination.

Journal of Telecommunications and High Technology Law,
141, 2005.

[27] X. Xiao. Technical, Commercial and Regulatory Challenges
of QoS: An Internet Service Model Perspective. The Morgan
Kaufmann Series in Networking, 2008.

859