Economics of BitTorrent Communities

Ian A. Kash

Microsoft Research

Cambridge

Cambridge, CB3 0FB, UK
iankash@microsoft.com

John K. Lai
Harvard SEAS

Cambridge, MA 02138

jklai@seas.harvard.edu

Haoqi Zhang
Harvard SEAS

Cambridge, MA 02138

hq@eecs.harvard.edu

ABSTRACT
Over the years, private ﬁle-sharing communities built on the
BitTorrent protocol have developed their own policies and
mechanisms for motivating members to share content and
contribute resources. By requiring members to maintain
a minimum ratio between uploads and downloads, private
communities eﬀectively establish credit systems, and with
them full-ﬂedged economies. We report on a half-year-long
measurement study of DIME – a community for sharing live
concert recordings – that sheds light on the economic forces
aﬀecting users in such communities. A key observation is
that while the download of ﬁles is priced only according to
the size of the ﬁle, the rate of return for seeding new ﬁles is
signiﬁcantly greater than for seeding old ﬁles. We ﬁnd via
a natural experiment that users react to such diﬀerences in
resale value by preferentially consuming older ﬁles during a
‘free leech’ period. We consider implications of these ﬁnding
on a user’s ability to earn credits and meet ratio enforce-
ments, focusing in particular on the relationship between
visitation frequency and wealth and on low bandwidth users.
We then share details from an interview with DIME mod-
erators, which highlights the goals of the community based
on which we make suggestions for possible improvement.

Categories and Subject Descriptors
C.2.4 [Computer-Communication Networks]: Distributed
Systems; J.4 [Social and Behavioral Sciences]: Eco-
nomics

Keywords
BitTorrent, private communities, peer-to-peer, incentives,
share ratio enforcement, resale value

1.

INTRODUCTION

Interactions among large numbers of agents on the Inter-
net challenge system designers to not only focus on system-
level function, but also to account for user incentives.
In
systems ranging from eBay to BitTorrent, the designs of
reputation systems and sharing protocols pay particular at-
tention to the role of economics in computer systems.
In

Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Com-
mittee (IW3C2). Distribution of these papers is limited to classroom use,
and personal use by others.
WWW 2012, April 16–20, 2012, Lyon, France.
ACM 978-1-4503-1229-5/12/04.

Aviv Zohar

Microsoft Research SVC
Mountain View, CA 94043
avivz@microsoft.com

BitTorrent, incentivizing users to contribute by uploading
while downloading a ﬁle has led to an eﬀective form of ﬁle-
sharing that now accounts for an estimated 18% of Internet
traﬃc [1].

Despite BitTorrent’s success, there is a lack of incentive
for peers to continue uploading a ﬁle after it is downloaded.
Private BitTorrent communities are a solution to this prob-
lem. Private communities build on the BitTorrent proto-
col by developing their own policies and mechanisms for
motivating members to share content and contribute re-
sources. Communities tend to be organized around a par-
ticular interest—e.g., live concert recordings, high deﬁnition
movies, or the newest TV shows—and registered members
acquire ﬁles of interest in return for sharing ﬁles with like-
minded users. There are over 800 active private BitTorrent
communities [16], each enforcing its own set of rules that are
reﬁned over time to ﬁt the community’s goals and needs.

Supported by additions to the original BitTorrent pro-
tocol, private communities can track how much each user
downloads and uploads. This allows them to require mem-
bers to upload a certain fraction of the amount they down-
load. This regulation, known as share ratio enforcement
(SRE), eﬀectively introduces a currency to the system. Users
earn credit by uploading ﬁles they have or have downloaded,
and spend credit by downloading ﬁles. For example, a ratio
requirement of 0.25 has an uploader earning four credits for
every byte uploaded and a downloader spending one credit
for every byte downloaded. In accounting for consumption
(download) and labor (upload), private BitTorrent commu-
nities are as much economic systems as they are computer
systems.

Anecdotal evidence from discussions among members in
private communities points to a rich, multi-faceted set of
user behaviors that emerge in response to economic forces.
Their stories and shared advice suggest that users often
make economic decisions and trade-oﬀs, e.g., by joining new
torrents as a way to quickly earn credit that can then be
spent on downloading older torrents. If properly directed,
economic forces can help to advance a community’s goals
and lead individuals to make better use of resources, but if
misdirected they can lead to skewed incentives and ineﬃ-
ciency.

Previous studies of BitTorrent communities (e.g. [3, 12])
typically emphasize their characteristics as computer sys-
tems, focusing on aspects such as the arrival rate of peers to

WWW 2012 – Session: Mobile and File-sharing UsersApril 16–20, 2012, Lyon, France221a torrent, the quantity of resources available, and the perfor-
mance experienced by users. A few recent works focus on the
economics of private communities, by using theoretical and
simulation approaches to examine how ratio enforcement in-
centivizes contributions and how issues such as lack of credit
ﬂow [8] or potential for collusion [11] can create ineﬃciencies
and manipulation opportunities. While the theoretical anal-
ysis and simulation results from these works provide some
insight, gaining a deeper understanding of the economy in
private BitTorrent communities requires rich datasets that
can direct our attention to successes and ineﬃciencies that
arise in actual communities for economic reasons.

In this paper, we advance the study of private BitTorrent
communities as economic systems by reporting on a half-
year-long measurement study of the DIME community for
sharing live concert recordings. Using extensive traces of
activity on diﬀerent ﬁles and daily snapshots of the activity
of all users, we ﬁnd that:

• There are signiﬁcant diﬀerences between the returns
from seeding new and old ﬁles, resulting in higher re-
sale value for downloading new ﬁles.

• Users preferentially consume older ﬁles during a ‘free
leech’ period, which provides evidence that users are
aware of and react to the resale value of ﬁles.

• Given the diﬀerence in resale value, frequent visitors
to the site have more opportunities to earn credit by
downloading and subsequently seeding new ﬁles, and
on average achieve higher ratios.

• Low bandwidth users do not adjust for their lower
earning potential by downloading more new ﬁles, and
instead just achieve lower ratios.

The paper proceeds as follows. Section 1.1 introduces Bit-
Torrent and related terminology. Section 2 introduces the
DIME community, and describes our methodology for ob-
taining measurements. Section 3 demonstrates the signif-
icant diﬀerence in resale value between new and old ﬁles,
and how users react to such diﬀerences. In Section 4 we ex-
amine how visitation frequency and bandwidth aﬀect user
outcomes and behavior. We share details from our inter-
view with site moderators and discuss the implications of
our ﬁndings in Section 5, with a focus on improving the de-
sign of private BitTorrent communities. Section 6 presents
related work, and Section 7 concludes.
1.1 BitTorrent and related terminology

BitTorrent [5] is a protocol designed for sharing ﬁles via
direct peer-to-peer connections between diﬀerent hosts. A
user who wishes to distribute a ﬁle to others starts by cre-
ating a torrent that contains metadata about the ﬁle to be
distributed. The user then publishes the torrent, typically
by posting it on a web site. The torrent, which is down-
loaded by other users who wish to gain access to the con-
tent, points to a centralized server called a tracker that is
used to coordinate between various peers who are sharing
the designated ﬁle. Once a peer learns the address of others
who are sharing the same ﬁle, it directly connects to them
and can download and upload pieces of the ﬁle. BitTorrent
makes a distinction between seeders, who are peers that have
a full copy of the ﬁle (and thus only upload it to others), and
leechers, who only have a partial copy and engage in both

upload and download. Peers start out as leechers while they
are downloading the ﬁle, and can then serve as seeders once
their download is complete.

File sharing communities provide a set of services: they
host the website on which torrent ﬁles are posted, host the
trackers used to coordinate the sharing of each ﬁle, and keep
track of updates that are sent by the various peers about the
upload and download that they have performed on each ﬁle.
Each community thus serves as a center for coordinating the
sharing of ﬁles among members in that community, and for
keeping records of each member’s contributions.

2. OVERVIEW AND METHODOLOGY

In this section we present an overview of DIME and its
economy, discuss our methodology for obtaining measure-
ments, and share results on user contribution and consump-
tion.
2.1 DIME

DIME (www.dimeadozen.org) is a private BitTorrent com-
munity in which users share live concert recordings (bootlegs)
in lossless audio format. Sharing concert recordings has a
rich history prior to BitTorrent, as music enthusiasts would
trade tape and CD recordings of their favorite bands. DIME
provides a community in which to continue this tradition of
bootleg trading, but with the convenience aﬀorded by its
website, forum system, and BitTorrent trackers. Shows up-
loaded on DIME cover a wide range of music genres, and
include new shows from currently touring bands as well as
older shows recorded decades ago. DIME prohibits the post-
ing of any ‘oﬃcial material,’ and maintains lists of artists,
venues, and shows that are disallowed on its tracker.1 Ac-
cording to DIME’s FAQ, this helps to avoid legal troubles,
and aims to respect artists’ rights.

DIME allows open registration, but restricts the maxi-
mum number of accounts so as to reduce server load and
work for moderators.2 While the site is typically full, new
accounts open up frequently, as existing accounts that are
inactive for long periods of time are periodically removed
from the system.
2.2 DIME’s economy

By tracking the upload and download of members beyond
a single torrent, communities are able to require that mem-
bers perform some minimal amount of work. DIME enforces
a share ratio of 0.25, which requires members to upload at
least a quarter of the amount they download (in bytes).3
We deﬁne the amount of credit or wealth each user has on
DIME as:

Credit = 4 × upload − download

which is the amount a user can download (in bytes) without
uploading and still satisfy DIME’s share ratio requirement.
Note that every transfer of data adds credit to the system.
Because DIME requires a share ratio of 0.25, if a byte is sent

1http://wiki.dimeadozen.org/index.php/Main_Page
2During the course of this study the maximum number of
accounts was approximately 110,000. As of February 2012
this number has increased to approximately 130,000.
3The minimum share ratio allowed on DIME is much lower
than that allowed in other communities with ratio require-
ments.

WWW 2012 – Session: Mobile and File-sharing UsersApril 16–20, 2012, Lyon, France222from peer A to peer B, then B loses a unit of credit, but A
gains four units of credit. This creation of credit counters
loss from users with positive balances who exit the system
or otherwise “hoard” credit that will never be spent [10].

DIME does not constantly enforce the share ratio, but
rather does so in share ratio enforcement (SRE) cycles, which
deﬁne particular download amounts after which the system
will check a user’s ratio against the minimum requirement.
One can view the enforcement cycles as a form of loaning; set
at every 5GB, they allow a user to have a negative amount of
credit as long as the balance is positive by the next enforce-
ment cycle. For example, this helps new users, who begin
with no credit, to download their ﬁrst ﬁles. Users who fail
to meet the requirement at an enforcement cycle are not al-
lowed to download additional ﬁles until their wealth becomes
positive via uploading. Donating to DIME extends one’s en-
forcement cycles, which eﬀectively increases how much one
can borrow without adding to one’s wealth.

The price of a ﬁle is the amount of credit deducted from
the account of the downloader, which is simply the size of
the ﬁle (in bytes). The price per byte is thus the same across
all ﬁles on DIME. The resale value of a ﬁle is the amount
of credit earned by an uploader, which is four times the
amount he uploads (in bytes). This resale value depends on
the upload rate achieved (the rate of return), which depends
on the uploader’s bandwidth and may also change over time
as seeders and leechers join and leave a torrent, and on the
duration of seeding, which is up to the user. For example,
suppose that ﬁles A and B have the same size, but ﬁle A has
few seeders and many leechers while ﬁle B has many seed-
ers and few leechers. All other things equal, ﬁle A promises
a higher upload rate and thus a higher resale value for the
same duration of seeding. To the extent that users are con-
strained by their ability to earn credit or simply want to
maintain higher ratios, the resale value of a ﬁle is important
and can inﬂuence user decisions.

Occasionally, DIME has a free leech period, during which
users do not spend any credits when downloading ﬁles. In
other words, the prices of all ﬁles are ﬁxed to zero during
free leech. Users still receive credit for uploading, so ﬁles
retain their resale value. Our data covers one such period
that lasted three days.
2.3 Methodology

DIME’s servers collect information that is reported pe-
riodically by the BitTorrent clients of its members, which
it tracks and displays in the form of HTML pages available
to all members. We obtained the following information by
performing periodic crawls of the website:4

• Account proﬁle snapshots: We took periodic snap-
shots of the proﬁle pages of all user accounts in the
system. These proﬁle pages included static informa-
tion such as the user’s join date and dynamically up-
dated information such as the user’s ratio, and up-
load/download amounts and rates.5

4Our study is conducted with permission from DIME mod-
erators, and with approval from Harvard University’s Insti-
tutional Review Board.
5We performed daily scrapes between April 28, 2010 and
September 27, 2010, and multiple scrapes per day between
December 23, 2010 and January 21, 2011. Out of 153 pos-
sible days between 4/28/10 and 9/27/10, we are missing 32
days due to scrape failures.

• Torrent traces: We recorded traces of torrent detail
pages from the time a torrent was posted for a number
of torrents. These pages included information about
the seeders and leechers on the torrent and their cur-
rent upload and download amounts for the torrent. We
downloaded the torrent details pages every ﬁve min-
utes for the torrents being tracked.6

• Torrent snapshots: In late 2010, we also started to
take snapshots of all active torrents in the system. For
these snapshots we crawled the same pages as the tor-
rent traces, but did not track individual torrents and
instead took less frequent snapshots of all torrents.

While most of the statistics we collect are precise, two
require some care. One is the maximum upload bandwidth
available to a user. DIME tracks the maximum upload band-
width it has ever observed for a user, but the actual max-
imum bandwidth of a user varies over time. While at an
individual level the reported value may be a noisy signal of
how much bandwidth a user can typically provide, in ag-
gregate our results suggest it provides a reasonable signal.
For example, on average the upload rate of a peer is roughly
linear in this quantity (see Figure 3(a)).

The other statistic is the current upload of a peer when
tracking a torrent. We did not perform peer-level measure-
ments, so we only have access to the data that peers re-
ported to the tracker. Though we crawled each tracked tor-
rent every ﬁve minutes, empirically we observe that a peer’s
reported upload updates every 20 to 30 minutes. We can
derive upper and lower bounds on the peer’s upload dur-
ing these 20 to 30 minute intervals, but do not have ﬁner
grained information. When computing statistics such as
upload rates, we assume the upload is distributed equally
across these intervals, and aggregate data from many users
to mitigate errors due to this assumption.
2.4 User Contribution and Consumption

Figure 1 shows a snapshot of the historical upload and
download amounts of all users on February 20th, 2010. There
are 109,891 users in the system at the time of the snap-
shot, of whom 7.4% have donated money to the site. Note
that almost all (non-donating) users who download more
than 10GB and are still in the system have a ratio above
0.25 and that many users have a ratio above 1. This shows
that many users choose to behave “altruistically” and upload
more than the minimally required amount. DIME and other
private communities promote such behavior by encouraging
users to upload at least as much as they download,7 and by
issuing social rewards to users with high ratio. For example,
users earn special badges for attaining speciﬁc levels of ac-
tivity, are often more respected in the community, and are
given additional privileges on the site.8 These factors inspire
many users to upload more than what is required by the min-
imum share ratio, and suggest that even users with ratios

6Our ﬁrst batch of traces tracked 173 torrents posted after
April 29, 2010 until June 26, 2010. Our second batch of
traces tracked 176 torrents posted after June 27, 2010 until
September 7, 2010.
7http://wiki.dimeadozen.org/index.php/DimeFAQ:
DIME_Ratio_Primer
8http://wiki.dimeadozen.org/index.php/EzTorrent:
VIP_Perquisites

WWW 2012 – Session: Mobile and File-sharing UsersApril 16–20, 2012, Lyon, France223Figure 2 shows a histogram of the share ratios of users in
the system. We observe distinct increases around ratios 0.25
and 1. The spike at 0.25 is consistent with a group of users
performing the minimum amount of work required to remain
active in the system due to share ratio enforcement. The
bump around 1 shows some users attempting to contribute
at least as much as they receive from the system, which is
consistent with what DIME recommends that users do.

3. RESALE VALUE

Share ratio enforcement and users’ desire to maintain par-
ticular ratios require users to earn credits through uploading
to keep up with credits spent through downloading. In this
section, we examine the diﬀerence in resale value between
new and old ﬁles, and show how such diﬀerences may aﬀect
users’ decision-making in terms of which ﬁles to consume.
3.1 Resale Value and Torrent Age

In order to examine the relationship between user behav-
ior and resale value, we ﬁrst consider factors that aﬀect the
resale value of torrents. An analysis of our collected data
shows that the rate of return from seeding is highly corre-
lated with the age of a torrent, i.e. the time elapsed since the
torrent was ﬁrst posted. A priori, it is unclear whether new
torrents or old torrents will result in the highest returns to
seeding as there are competing eﬀects at play. Early in the
life of a torrent there are more leechers who wish to down-
load the ﬁle, suggesting a higher return to seeding. However,
there are also more seeders around, suggesting that users
may face more competition with other users for upload. By
tracking the activity on individual torrents on DIME, we
ﬁnd that earning potential is signiﬁcantly higher during the
early lifetime of a torrent and decays as the torrent ages.

We use the ﬁrst batch of torrent traces (173 torrents) to
obtain an aggregate estimate of the upload per period of
time seeding over the age of the torrent. For each torrent,
we compute an estimate of the upload rate as follows. For
each seeder on a torrent that is not its original uploader,
we construct a sequence of (upload, (start time, end time))
pairs which gives an estimate of how much the user uploaded
in (start time, end time). We then bucket these observations
by time, so that for each bucket of ﬁve hours, we have the
total upload as well as the total time spent seeding. From
here, we divide total upload by total time to get an estimate
of the upload rate in the time bucket. We then take the
average of these upload rates across all torrents in our set
of traces. Torrents that had no seeding activity in a time
bucket are included with a rate of zero.

Figure 3(b) shows that the average upload rate on a tor-
rent is extremely high in the hours immediately following
its posting, and that there is a severe drop in rate of return
over the course of the ﬁrst few days. After ﬁve days, the
decrease in upload rate slows, but continues for the lifetime
of the torrent.9 The large discrepancy between the returns
from seeding early and seeding late shows that when a user
downloads the ﬁle may be more important than how long
the user plans to seed it.

While Figure 3(b) shows that the upload rate is higher for
seeders who join a torrent early, it could be that the pop-

9The slow decline in the tail may be an artifact of torrents
dying and our measurements recording a rate of zero for
these torrents that are inactive.

Figure 1: Snapshot showing all users’ upload and
download amounts. Users marked in green donated
money to the site; users marked in red (including
those covered by the thick green) did not.

Figure 2: A Histogram of user ratios from a snap-
shot taken on May 1st, 2010 with bin sizes of 0.025.

signiﬁcantly above 0.25 may care about the resale value of
a ﬁle.

We also see in Figure 1 that most users who have uploaded
at least 1GB are above the 0.25 threshold, and virtually
all users who have uploaded at least 10GB are above the
threshold. This suggests that users who are restricted by the
ﬁrst enforcement cycles may be free riders who do not intend
to become long term members of the community. Such users
are initially given the beneﬁt of the doubt, but the extent to
which they can free ride is limited. We also see that there
are a number of users with 100GB or more of download
who are signiﬁcantly below the ratio of 0.25. Presumably,
these users make repeated donations to periodically extend
their SRE cycles. From the system’s perspective, this is
not particularly bad: there aren’t enough of these users to
cause a problem with the functioning of the economy, and
donations collected can be used to cover server and other
operating costs.

In analyzing user ratios, we ﬁnd that 50 percent of users
have a ratio of at least 0.5 and 30 percent of users have a
ratio of at least 1. Of the users with ratios less than 0.25,
only 6.5% (or around 2000 users) downloaded more than
20GB, indicating again that most users with low ratios are
free riders who will either donate or leave the system.

00.250.50.7511.251.51.7522.252.52.753+020004000600080001000012000RatioNumber of usersWWW 2012 – Session: Mobile and File-sharing UsersApril 16–20, 2012, Lyon, France224(a) Upload rate vs Max bandwidth.

(b) Upload rate vs. Torrent age.

(c) Upload rate vs. Max bandwidth for dif-
ferent torrent age buckets.

Figure 3: Eﬀects on Upload Rate.

loading ﬁles soon after they are posted, but will have to
spend accumulated credit to acquire older ﬁles of interest.
Given this, we expect users to preferentially download newer
ﬁles, and predict that users would be more willing to down-
load older ﬁles if their prices were lowered. Through a nat-
ural experiment that occurred during our study, we are able
to conﬁrm these hypotheses.

From December 23, 2010 to December 26, 2010, DIME
had a free leech period, during which downloading did not
count against a user’s credit but uploading still provided
credit. Figure 4 shows the number of active downloads dur-
ing a three week period that includes the free leech period.
We observe signiﬁcantly more active downloads during the
free leech period than during the days before and after free
leech, where the amount of download activity during free
leech is 50% to 75% higher than during the days following
free leech.10 In the days before and after free leech, we ob-
serve that the number of active downloads of ﬁles uploaded
within the last week (new ﬁles) is nearly identical to the
number of active downloads of ﬁles older than a week (old
ﬁles). But during free leech, demand for old ﬁles increased
60% to 70% while the demand for new ﬁles did not change
signiﬁcantly. Given that there are approximately 25 times
more old ﬁles than new ﬁles at any given time, these ﬁnd-
ings imply that users are typically downloading signiﬁcantly
more copies of newer ﬁles than older ﬁles, but that during
free leech users react to the change in prices by consum-
ing many more older ﬁles. For “very old” ﬁles (those that
are more than sixty days old), the demand nearly doubled
during the free leech period.

From an economic perspective, users can download newer
ﬁles of interest without worrying much about credit (since
these ﬁles can actually increase their wealth), but have to
download older ﬁles discriminately if constrained by their
wealth. Free leech provides a signiﬁcant opportunity to ac-
quire these ﬁles for free, during which users are able to down-
load ﬁles they want (old or new) without worrying about
impacting their wealth.

There is no particular bonus for seeding during free leech,
but the increase in download activity allows seeders to earn

10Note that prior to the free leech period our data has only a
single observation each day, while during and after free leech
we have multiple observations per day. The results during
the latter period captures some of the daily ﬂuctuations in
usage that are typical of private communities [7].

Figure 4: Leeching activity before, during, and after
a free leech period.

ulation of seeders who join a torrent early is diﬀerent than
the overall population. For instance, it could be that those
who join a torrent early tend to have higher upload band-
width, and that is accounting for the observed discrepancies
in upload rate. Figure 3(c) shows that even after control-
ling for the eﬀect of upload bandwidth, the average upload
rate is higher earlier in the life of a torrent. We see that
higher bandwidth leads to higher upload rates as expected,
while earlier join times magnify this eﬀect by changing the
slope of the plotted relationship. Figure 3(c) also suggests
that an eﬀective way to compensate for connection speed is
to join torrents earlier. For example, while we refrain from
giving precise numbers due to measurement noise, the ﬁgure
suggests that joining in the ﬁrst 0-12 hours as a low band-
width user (50-150 kBps) may yield higher upload rates than
joining in the ﬁrst 12-24 hours as a higher bandwidth user
(150-250 kBps).

These observations show that all else equal, newer tor-
rents have a higher resale value. For each unit of time spent
seeding, a user can gain more credit seeding a new torrent
than an old torrent.
3.2 Resale Value and Decision Making

The signiﬁcant diﬀerence in resale value between new and
old ﬁles suggests that users can often earn credit by down-

 0 5 10 15 20 25 0 50 100 150 200 250 300 350Upload rate (MB/hr)Left end point of max bandwidth bucket (kBps) 0 5 10 15 20 25 0 5 10 15 20 25Upload rate (MB/hr)Lifetime of torrent (days) 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 0 50 100 150 200 250 300 350Upload rate (MB/hr)Left end point of max bandwidth bucket (kBps)0-12hrs12-24hrs24-36hrs36-48hrs>48hrs12/1912/2601/0201/0902000400060008000Number of Active Downloads  totalnewoldvery oldFreeLeechWWW 2012 – Session: Mobile and File-sharing UsersApril 16–20, 2012, Lyon, France225more credit per unit of time spent seeding.
Interestingly,
there was essentially no increase in the number of seeders
during free leech, either overall or among those with low
share ratios. Given the increase in the number of active
downloads during free leech, more downloads are supported
by the same number of seeders during this period. Assum-
ing that the characteristics of the population of seeders (e.g.,
their bandwidth distribution) are more or less the same dur-
ing free leech and at other points in time, this provides ev-
idence that there is typically a supply of upload bandwidth
that is not being used because no one is currently leeching
the ﬁles those users are seeding. While this ﬁnding points
to a potential ineﬃciency of the system, having a supply
of seeders with available bandwidth on older torrents does
allow these ﬁles to remain available to users who choose to
download them. It also highlights why the resale value of
ﬁles is important: there is a pool of users who are willing
to seed more but their content may not be of interest to
others, so their eﬀorts could be spared or better directed to
ﬁles that are in greater demand to increase download speeds.
Alternatively, since users do appear to value older ﬁles (as
evidenced by the demand during the free leech period), we
could attempt to make downloading these ﬁles more attrac-
tive to increase the total welfare produced by the system.
We discuss this issue further in Section 5.2.

4. GENERATING WEALTH

The diﬀerence in resale value between new and old ﬁles
have implications on the ability of users to acquire wealth on
DIME. We examine in this section how the frequency of site
visits may aﬀect earning potential, and how low bandwidth
users handle the economic forces within DIME.
4.1 Visitation Frequencies

Since newer torrents provide higher resale values, we ex-
pect users who can regularly manage to download ﬁles early
in a torrent’s lifetime to have the best earning potential. As-
suming that ﬁles of interest to a user are uploaded more or
less uniformly across time, the likelihood that a ﬁle of inter-
est will be new when a user sees it on DIME is directly cor-
related with how frequently the user visits the site. To study
the relationship between visitation frequency and earnings,
we use contiguous daily snapshots of all DIME users from
April 28th, 2010 to July 20th, 2010 to obtain records of each
user’s upload and download amounts during this period, as
well as the number of days on which they were seen on the
site. After ﬁltering out users who only visited once or never,
and users for whom we did not have at least 60 days of data
(e.g., new members) in this measurement period, we are left
with a dataset containing records for 38,583 users.

We plot in Figure 5 the distribution of upload to download
ratios obtained by users with particular visitation frequen-
cies during the measurement period. We see from the graph
that very few of the most frequent visitors (2%) obtain a
ratio of less than 0.1, and over 50% earn a ratio above 1.
On the contrary, nearly 40% of the most infrequent visi-
tors earn a ratio of less than 0.1, and only 20% earn a ratio
above 1. While this suggests that frequent visitors may be
presented with more earning opportunities, we also see that
not all frequent visitors earn a high ratio. This is likely due
to choice: as users who visit often can more easily join newer
torrents of interest to earn credit, they can also respond to
their higher earning potential by consuming more older ﬁles,

Figure 5: Distribution of users by upload to down-
load ratio, bucketed by visitation frequency.

Figure 6: Aggregate ratio vs. Visitation frequency,
bucketed by upload bandwidth.

or seeding for shorter periods of time (e.g., disconnect soon
after the download completes).

To ensure that the observed diﬀerence is not due to dif-
ferences in the distribution of bandwidth among users at
diﬀerent visitation frequencies, we plot in Figure 6 the ag-
gregate ratio achieved by users at diﬀerent visitation fre-
quencies, separated out by bandwidth. We see that on av-
erage, regardless of the bandwidth group, users who visit
the site most frequently earn higher ratios, with the low-
est bandwidth and highest bandwidth users earning signiﬁ-
cantly higher ratios when they arrive earlier. This provides
further evidence that the observed eﬀect is due to diﬀer-
ences in earning potential, as caused by being able to join
ﬁles earlier.

From Figure 7, we see that frequent visitors not only earn
higher ratios, but also download and upload more on av-
erage than infrequent visitors. In addition to having higher
in-period consumption, the proportionally higher upload im-
plies that frequent visitors are also acquiring signiﬁcantly
more wealth that can be utilized for future spending. While
some of the diﬀerence in wealth earned can be explained
by higher rate of earning on newer ﬁles, it may also be a
representation of actual demand, wherein users with lower

 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1 1.2 1.4 1.6 1.8 2[0.9,1][0.7-0.9][0.5-0.7][0.3-0.5][0.1-0.3]RatioFrequency of visits (fraction of days)0-40kBps40-80kBps80-160kBps160-320kBps>320kBpsWWW 2012 – Session: Mobile and File-sharing UsersApril 16–20, 2012, Lyon, France226Figure 7: Average download and upload amounts
(in GB), bucketed by visitation frequency.

demand (e.g., interested only in a few particular bands) may
choose to visit the site less frequently and may also be less
concerned with maintaining a high ratio.
It is also worth
noting that while one can download ﬁles of interest while
their resale value is high by visiting the site frequently, doing
so takes eﬀort and should be thought of as a costly action.
We examine how users make economic decisions in response
to such trade-oﬀs below.
4.2 Low-bandwidth users

To examine how users respond to the forces within the
DIME economy, we consider the behavior of low bandwidth
users, who are particularly susceptible to economic pressures
within the system.

We have seen that returns to seeding depend on band-
width and torrent age. In particular, upload rates are signif-
icantly higher if a user arrives early to a torrent, and tend to
increase linearly with bandwidth over a given period. This
suggests that, all else being equal, low bandwidth users will
earn less credit than high bandwidth users. In this section,
we examine four actions low bandwidth users could take to
compensate for this: join torrents earlier, seed longer, down-
load less, and aim for lower ratios.11

Our results show that low bandwidth users do not join
torrents earlier than other groups. Figure 8(a) shows, on
a log scale, the CDF of the time after a torrent’s creation
at which users arrive. Each line represents a class of users
within a particular bandwidth bucket. We see that most of
the lines are quite similar, with low bandwidth users join-
ing slightly later than high bandwidth users. This suggests
that many such users are unable or unwilling to change their
behavior in order to join torrents earlier. One possible ex-
planation is that, while checking the site more frequently can
allow users to join desired torrents earlier, doing so requires
manual eﬀort and may be costly or infeasible for many users.

11In this section, we assume that bandwidth limitations are
independent of user demand. Since we can only measure
the amount of bandwidth users make available for BitTor-
rent rather than their true upload capacity, we cannot rule
out the possibility that behavior we observe is due to users
who choose to contribute low bandwidth due to lower de-
mand despite having high upload capacity. While this is a
limitation of the study, we mitigate potential eﬀects by us-
ing the highest upload rate DIME has ever recorded for each
user.

(a)

(b)

Figure 8: (a): CDF of time of ﬁrst appearance on
torrents by users’ upload bandwidth. (b): CDF of
time spent seeding by users’ upload bandwidth.

While low bandwidth users do not appear to join tor-
rents earlier than other users, we do ﬁnd that low band-
width users seed longer than high bandwidth users. Fig-
ure 8(b) shows, on a log scale, the CDF of seeding time,
again grouped by bandwidth. Here the ordering of lines is
consistent, with higher bandwidth users spending less time
seeding than lower bandwidth users. For example, the me-
dian user with a bandwidth between 0-40kBps spends 1.4
times as long seeding as the median user with a bandwidth
between 80-160kBps, who in turn spend nearly 1.5 times as
long seeding as the users in the highest bandwidth buckets.
A third way to compensate for low bandwidth is to down-
load less. Our ﬁndings from observing the change in users’
download amounts between April 28th, 2010 and July 20th,
2010 show that this is indeed the case. Figure 9 buckets
users by bandwidth, and shows that on average low band-
width users download less than high bandwidth users. The
diﬀerence in download amounts thus suggests that the price
of ﬁles in the system may be preventing lower bandwidth
users from being able to fulﬁll their demand.

We also see from Figure 9 that low bandwidth users up-
load less in proportion to their download, thus earning lower
ratios. Users in the lowest bandwidth bucket earned an ag-
gregate ratio of 0.4 during this measurement period, while
users in the highest bandwidth bucket earned an aggregate
ratio of 1.7. Since DIME only requires users to maintain

 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 1601.00.90.80.70.60.50.40.30.20.10Average amounts (in GB)Frequency of visits (fraction of days)UploadDownload 0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 110-210-1100101102103104105Fraction of usersAge of torrent (hours)0-40kBps40-80kBps80-160kBps160-320kBps>320kBps10−110010110210300.10.20.30.40.50.60.70.80.91Time spent seeding (hours)Fraction of users  0−40kBps40−80kBps80−160kBps160−320kBps >320kBpsWWW 2012 – Session: Mobile and File-sharing UsersApril 16–20, 2012, Lyon, France2275.1 Desiderata

We conducted an email interview with DIME moderators
in January, 2011.12 From the interview, we learn that de-
cisions on site policies are often community-driven. For ex-
ample, DIME’s ratio requirement of 0.25 is the result of a
vote among community members in 2004. This ratio re-
quirement has not been changed since.13 The choice of this
relatively low sharing ratio indicates that DIME is more
open than other communities to the “less fortunate,” who
may have slower Internet connections or cannot visit the
site frequently. The fact that every user is granted 5GBs
of download before ratio enforcement begins strikes a bal-
ance between giving new users a leg up and allowing in some
hit-and-run leechers to download for free. The moderators
noted that the enforcement cycle may need to be extended
to account for the increase in ﬁle size over the years, but
were concerned that “hit-and-run leechers would be able to
take even more without giving.”

DIME moderators view themselves as a “user-help-desk”,
and are willing to help users in share ratio violation to get
back on track by providing advice and temporarily extending
the enforcement cycle. One desideratum may thus be to
provide additional mechanisms for helping “less unfortunate”
users and poor decision-makers to earn credit, while keeping
abusers out of the system.

When asked about the signiﬁcant diﬀerence in resale value
between new and old ﬁles, moderators simply responded
that “this is the nature of BitTorrent,” and that it encour-
ages users to arrive which helps to share and distribute ﬁles.
The moderators also had no issues with users visiting the
site more often and downloading newer torrents as a means
to earn credit, and believe that this helps DIME be “a vital
community.” While forming an active community in which
users can download ﬁles of interest as long as they put in the
eﬀort to contribute (e.g., by joining new torrents regardless
of interest) is important, alternative mechanisms for reward-
ing contributions of users can potentially oﬀset the unmet
demand on older ﬁles due to the lack of earning potential. A
second desideratum is thus to increase demand for older ﬁles,
while balancing the goal of maintaining a vital community.
Finally, while system performance is important to DIME
moderators, they are also looking to reduce server costs
when possible. Moreover, moderators do get very busy, and
given that they serve an important function in the commu-
nity and their time is a scarce resource, policies and mecha-
nisms to reduce their own workload can beneﬁt the system.
Reductions in the load each user inﬂicts on the servers and
on the moderators will allow, for example, for an increase in
the size of the community.
5.2 Potential Changes

5.2.1 Restricting access of new users to older ﬁles
Our measurements reveal that new users have an increased
tendency to download old ﬁles. Figure 10 shows that the me-
dian user who registered within the last 0-14 days initiated
download 96 hours into the torrent’s lifetime, while the me-
dian veteran user (who had an account for more than 50

12A transcript of the interview is available as a supplement.
13There were a number of attempts spurred by particular
community members, but they “weren’t successful because
of the community’s resistance.”

Figure 9: Average download and upload amounts of
users bucketed by bandwidth.

a ratio of 0.25, aiming for lower ratios seem like a reason-
able strategy for low bandwidth users acting in this econ-
omy. That said, their lower upload volume and earned ratio
imply that they acquire signiﬁcantly less wealth than high
bandwidth users, leaving them with less savings for future
consumption. This in some sense also limits their ability to
strategically join early: while the average new torrent pro-
vides signiﬁcant earning opportunities, any particular new
torrent may not. Unlike high bandwidth users with higher
savings, low bandwidth users may be less able to account
for uncertainty in earnings while attempting to maintain a
ratio above 0.25.

In summary, we ﬁnd that low bandwidth users do not join
torrents earlier, but they do seed for longer, download less,
and earn lower ratios.
If we assume that low bandwidth
users have the same demand as users in other buckets, the
combination of seeding for longer periods yet downloading
less suggests that the increase in seeding is unable to fully
compensate for the low bandwidth of the users. This result
agrees with the observation by Andrade et al. [3], that while
users were generally willing to seed longer, doing so did not
seem to make them much more successful as uploaders. The
insights from Section 3.1 provide an explanation: as the
rate of return for seeding a ﬁle drops signiﬁcantly over time,
seeding for longer does not result in a signiﬁcant increase in
credits earned.

5. DISCUSSION

Our ultimate goal is not only to understand the economic
factors driven by DIME’s current policies, but to ﬁnd ways
to improve the community. While one can establish a num-
ber of desirable properties, understanding which improve-
ments to focus on and what tradeoﬀs to make depend on
the particular goals of the community. While decisions can
sometimes be made with respect to general user preference
(e.g., trading oﬀ higher download speeds with the amount
of seeding required), most decisions on resource distribution
and availability will force us to weigh the conﬂicting pref-
erences of diﬀerent users, and to draw on the political and
moral viewpoints of the community (e.g., what kind of users
are wanted in the system, who should get to consume more,
and what kind of ﬁles should be allowed). In this section we
discuss our desiderata as motivated by our interview with
DIME’s moderators, and then discuss speciﬁc changes with
potential for improving DIME.

 0 20 40 60 80 100 1200-40kBps40-80kBps80-160kBps160-320kBps>320kBpsAverage Download/Upload (in GB)Frequency of visits (fraction of days)UploadDownloadWWW 2012 – Session: Mobile and File-sharing UsersApril 16–20, 2012, Lyon, France228Price alterations should be done very carefully. If the cost
decreases too much, too many users will wait to download
ﬁles and too few will seed them which will amount to a
stagnation in the economy. We also need to be careful not
to make it too easy to earn money. Theoretical models [10]
show that if it is too easy to earn money, rational users feel
“rich” and decrease their willingness to work, leading to a
vicious cycle where fewer and fewer users contribute.

6. RELATED WORK

A number of papers empirically study private BitTorrent
communities, generally concluding that private communities
exhibit higher download speeds and availability than pub-
lic trackers. While our study tracks information similar to
that of earlier studies, we conduct a series of long traces
and can thus examine how user behavior changes over time.
Additionally, our torrent level traces allow us to study how
activity on individual torrents varies over time, leading to
our novel study of resale value and its implications.

In a series of papers, Andrade et al. [2, 15, 3] study traces
from seven BitTorrent communities, some of which use SRE.
They ﬁnd that peers contribute signiﬁcantly more, particu-
larly by seeding for longer periods of time, in communities
with SRE. They also study the arrival rate of peers to tor-
rents, showing that it is initially high, but rapidly drops and
then has a long, slowly-decaying tail. This arrival pattern
is consistent with our observation that the greatest oppor-
tunities to gain upload as a seeder are early in the life of a
torrent.

Liu et al. [11] study a user snapshot of HDChina, which
uses a variable SRE depending on download amount, and
show that seeder / leecher ratio is signiﬁcantly higher in
HDChina than in public torrents. The authors also develop
a model of incentive mechanisms in BitTorrent communities
and show that a ratio mechanism provides good incentives.
They argue that collusion is an inherent problem in private
communities and propose an entropy-based method for de-
tecting collusion.

Hales et al. [8] report some basic statistics from a seven
day trace of a community using SRE at a ratio of 0.67.
They show that a majority of the uploading each day is
contributed by ten percent of peers, possibly starving oth-
ers of the opportunity to maintain an acceptable ratio while
downloading desired ﬁles. Using a theoretical model and
simulations, they demonstrate conditions under which this
occurs. Rahman et al. [14] build on this through additional
modeling and simulations and show how an adaptive pol-
icy can help avoid credit crunches by instituting free leech
periods when many peers are “stuck” at a low ratio.

Meulpolder et al. [12] study ﬁve communities, three of
which use SRE. They ﬁnd that more stringent ratio require-
ments lead to higher download speeds, longer seeding time,
and fewer ﬁrewalled peers.

Zhang et al. [16] study the landscape of private BitTorrent
communities and estimate that over 800 private communities
combine to have approximately the same number of torrents
as publicly available trackers and have signiﬁcantly more
active users at any time.

In a pair of papers, Chen et al. [7, 6] study 17 communities,
including a 68 day trace of DIME, and note that those that
use SRE have signiﬁcantly greater user activity and seeding.
Their study of DIME is more limited and focuses primarily
on the characteristics of users. They model the tendency of

Figure 10: A CDF of times leechers begin to down-
load torrents. Users are grouped by the age of their
account.

days) tended to join a torrent after only 11.3 hours. This
eﬀect may have several causes. First, users who have just
joined may ﬁnd old ﬁles appealing, and were not around to
download them when they were new. Second, these users
may be less aware of the pitfalls of downloading old ﬁles,
which can quickly result in them having negative credit. Fi-
nally, some users may be joining the site to get a particular
ﬁle, and may not be interested in staying for the long run.
These “free riders” know in advance that they will not need
to regain their lost credits and will not upload the ﬁle; they
may thus place no value on the gains from potential future
resale of the ﬁles and just download indiscriminately.

Newcomers who unwittingly end up with a negative amount
of credit may be driven to create new accounts, or may turn
to moderators for a temporary extension of the SRE cycle
(a temporary loan of credits). An approach requiring less
manual intervention would be to limit the access of users to
older ﬁles, e.g., until they gain more experience on the site,
or only when they have enough absolute wealth to cover the
entire cost of downloading the old ﬁle. This would both
help new users avoid the potential mistake of getting into
debt for downloading a ﬁle they cannot later upload, and at
the same time would also make free-riding less appealing as
more eﬀort would be needed to access many ﬁles.

A possible pitfall of this approach is that new users may
be dissuaded from joining the site if they cannot initially
access some material they desire. While this is something to
be wary of, DIME is currently running at capacity and new
users need to wait for accounts to become available. If this
is a concern, an alternative would be to caution users with a
warning, or apply softer limit based on their current ratios.
5.2.2 Increasing demand for ﬁles
In conventional markets, the price of services that have too
much supply and too little demand naturally drops. But on
DIME, all transfers are credited equally, so prices remain
ﬁxed. One can imagine adopting a credit system in which
uploads and downloads convert to credit based on the prices
of ﬁles.
In such a system, one can attempt to adjust the
price of torrents by slowly lowering the price over time, by
making all ﬁles beyond a certain age cheaper, or by making
the price depend on the seeder to leecher ratio in the torrent.
This would attract more reluctant downloaders, and give
additional hints to seeders about how to best direct their
eﬀorts. Related approaches to helping match supply and
demand across torrents are considered in Antfarm [13] and
PACE [4].

10−110010110210300.10.20.30.40.50.60.70.80.91Age of torrent when leecher joins (hours)Fraction of users  0−14 days on site14−50 days on site>50 days on siteWWW 2012 – Session: Mobile and File-sharing UsersApril 16–20, 2012, Lyon, France229peers to be starved for opportunities to upload and discuss
mechanisms such as free leech periods that communities use
to ameliorate the problem.

Huberman and Wu [9] propose an incentive mechanism
for peer-to-peer exchange that credits servers for seeding
ﬁles, much like the SRE mechanism for private BitTorrent
communities. They conclude that such a mechanism creates
an incentive for servers to provision the long tail of ﬁles that
may not be accessed very often.
Indeed, we observe that
many older ﬁles are still actively seeded.

7. CONCLUSION

We have presented a study of DIME’s complex economy.
In it, we have shown that older ﬁles are much harder to up-
load to others and thus have low resale value, but are equally
priced per byte. This eﬀect skews the everyday consumption
of ﬁles toward newer, more popular ﬁles—an eﬀect that is
reﬂected in the increased desire to download old ﬁles when
the price is lowered during a free leech period. While the
diﬀerence in resale value makes it diﬃcult for infrequent and
low bandwidth users to earn credit by downloading ﬁles of
interest, DIME’s relatively low minimum share ratio never-
theless allows such users to participate in the community.
These results show how economic policies in private BitTor-
rent communities can reﬂect social norms, and aﬀect the
composition of users and behaviors accordingly.

Based on these insights, we have suggested a few possible
changes that may improve the eﬃciency of DIME’s economy.
However, it is important to note that, even without further
intervention, DIME’s survival despite changing conditions,
such as increases in bandwidth and ﬁle size and having a
dynamic user population, is a tribute to both the community
spirit that it maintains, and to the robustness of its economy.
Changes should thus be introduced with great care.

While we have focused on DIME, our observations on the
diﬀerence in resale value between new and old ﬁles and its
eﬀect on user behavior and wealth should hold in other com-
munities for which the pricing of ﬁles is age independent. An
interesting direction for future work is to study a diverse set
of BitTorrent communities to gain a fuller understanding of
how diﬀerent economic policies adopted by individual com-
munities can aﬀect system performance, inﬂuence the type
of users they attract, and advance community goals.

Acknowledgements
We thank DIME moderators for allowing us to conduct our
study, and in particular to jupiter2101 and erwe for the in-
terview. We thank Jane Calhoun for her assistance with the
IRB process, and David Parkes for helpful discussions. John
Lai and Haoqi Zhang are generously funded by a NDSEG
Fellowship and NSF Graduate Research Fellowship respec-
tively.

8. REFERENCES
[1] An estimate of infringing use of the internet. Technical

report, Envisional, January 2011.
http://documents.envisional.com/docs/
Envisional-Internet_Usage-Jan2011.pdf.

[2] N. Andrade, M. Mowbray, A. Lima, G. Wagner, and
M. Ripeanu. Inﬂuences on cooperation in BitTorrent
communities. In Proc. of the ACM SIGCOMM Third

Workshop on the Economics of Peer-to-Peer Systems
(P2PEcon), pages 111–115, 2005.

[3] N. Andrade, E. Santos-Neto, F. V. Brasileiro, and

M. Ripeanu. Resource demand and supply in
BitTorrent content-sharing communities. Computer
Networks, 53(4):515–527, 2009.

[4] C. Aperjis, M. J. Freedman, and R. Johari.

Peer-assisted content distribution with prices. In 2008
ACM Conference on Emerging Network Experiment
and Technology (CoNEXT 2008), page 17, 2008.

[5] BitTorrent Inc. BitTorrent web site.

http://www.bittorent.com.

[6] X. Chen, X. Chu, and J. Liu. Unveiling popularity of

BitTorrent darknets. In Proc. of the Global
Communications Conf. (GLOBECOM), pages 1–5,
2010.

[7] X. Chen, Y. Jiang, and X. Chu. Measurements,

analysis and modeling of private trackers. In Proc. of
the IEEE Tenth Int. Conf. on Peer-to-Peer Computing
(P2P), pages 1–10, 2010.

[8] D. Hales, R. Rahman, B. Zhang, M. Meulpolder, and
J. A. Pouwelse. BitTorrent or BitCrunch: Evidence of
a credit squeeze in BitTorrent? In Proc. of the 18th
IEEE Int. Workshops on Enabling Technologies:
Infrastructures for Collaborative Enterprises
(WETICE), pages 99–104, 2009.

[9] B. A. Huberman and F. Wu. Bootstrapping the long

tail in peer to peer systems. In Proceedings of the First
Workshop on Economics of Networked Systems
(NetEcon’06), Ann Arbor, 2006.

[10] I. A. Kash, E. J. Friedman, and J. Y. Halpern.

Optimizing scrip systems: Eﬃciency, crashes, hoarders
and altruists. In Eighth ACM Conference on
Electronic Commerce (EC), pages 305–315, 2007.
[11] Z. Liu, P. Dhungel, D. Wu, C. Zhang, and K. W.

Ross. Understanding and improving ratio incentives in
private communities. In Proc. of the 30th Int. Conf.
on Distributed Computing Systems (ICDCS), pages
610–621, 2010.

[12] M. Meulpolder, L. D’Acunto, M. Capota,

W. Wojciechowski, J. A. Pouwelse, D. H. J. Epema,
and H. J. Sips. Public and private BitTorrent
communities: A measurement study. In Proc. of the
9th Int. Workshop on Peer-to-Peer Systems (IPTPS),
2010.

[13] R. S. Peterson and E. G. Sirer. Antfarm: Eﬃcient

content distribution with managed swarms. In
Networked Systems Design and Implementation
(NSDI), 2009.

[14] R. Rahman, D. Hales, T. Vinko, J. A. Pouwelse, and

H. J. Sips. No more crash or crunch: Sustainable
credit dynamics in a p2p community. In Proc. of the
2010 Int. Conf. on High Performance Computing &
Simulation (HPCS), pages 332–340, 2010.

[15] M. Ripeanu, M. Mowbray, N. Andrade, and A. Lima.

Gifting technologies: A BitTorrent case study. First
Monday, 11(11), 2006.

[16] C. Zhang, P. Dhungel, D. Wu, Z. Liu, and K. W.

Ross. BitTorrent darknets. In Proc. 29th IEEE Int.
Conf. on Computer Communications (INFOCOM),
pages 1460–1468, 2010.

WWW 2012 – Session: Mobile and File-sharing UsersApril 16–20, 2012, Lyon, France230