Anatomy of a Web-Scale Resale Market:

A Data Mining Approach

Yuchen Zhao† Neel Sundaresan‡

Zeqian Shen‡ Philip S. Yu†∗

†University of Illinois at Chicago, USA ‡eBay Research Labs, USA ∗King Abdulaziz University, Saudi Arabia

yzhao@cs.uic.edu, {nsundaresan, zeqshen}@ebay.com, psyu@cs.uic.edu

ABSTRACT
Reuse and remarketing of content and products is an inte-
gral part of the internet. As E-commerce has grown, online
resale and secondary markets form a signiﬁcant part of the
commerce space. The intentions and methods for reselling
are diverse. In this paper, we study an instance of such mar-
kets that aﬀords interesting data at large scale for mining
purposes to understand the properties and patterns of this
online market. As part of knowledge discovery of such a
market, we ﬁrst formally propose criteria to reveal unseen
resale behaviors by elastic matching identiﬁcation (EMI)
based on the account transfer and item similarity proper-
ties of transactions. Then, we present a large-scale system
that leverages MapReduce paradigm to mine millions of on-
line resale activities from petabyte scale heterogeneous e-
commerce data. With the collected data, we show that the
number of resale activities leads to a power law distribu-
tion with a ‘long tail’, where a signiﬁcant share of users
only resell in very low numbers and a large portion of re-
sales come from a small number of highly active resellers.
We further conduct a comprehensive empirical study from
diﬀerent aspects of resales, including the temporal, spatial
patterns, user demographics, reputation and the content of
sale postings. Based on these observations, we explore the
features related to “successful” resale transactions and eval-
uate if they can be predictable. We also discuss uses of this
information mining for business insights and user experience
on a real-world online marketplace.

Categories and Subject Descriptors
H.2.8 [Database Management]: Database Applications
- Data Mining; H.3.1 [Information Storage and Re-
trieval]: Content Analysis and Indexing; J.4 [Social and
Behaviorial Sciences]: Sociology, Economics

Keywords
resale market; reseller; MapReduce; big data; e-commerce;
eBay; prediction; behavioral analysis

1.

INTRODUCTION

Recently there is tremendous republishing of content hap-
pening in the internet space and such trend is rapidly grow-
ing. While it does not imply copyright violation, marketing

Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference
Committee (IW3C2). IW3C2 reserves the right to provide a hyperlink
to the author’s site if the Material is used in electronic media.
WWW 2013, May 13–17, 2013, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
ACM 978-1-4503-2035-1/13/05.

groups have studied the importance of “content curation”[1]
on websites, e.g., blogs and news. Retweets on Twitter and
reclips on Pinterest are other examples of republishing on
social networks. In E-commerce, the equivalent of content
curation is obtaining inventory for reselling. Given these
developments, republishing becomes a key aspect of the in-
ternet and resale is a key aspect of electronic commerce.
Since reuse and remarketing of content and products is an
integral part of the internet, we particularly study the online
resale market in this paper.

Resale, which is the selling again of something purchased,
is an essential part of a market. There have been many re-
search studies on resale activities in diﬀerent markets, e.g.,
tickets [7], real estate [13][6], and automobiles [30]. The pre-
vious research is mostly on resale price maintenance [27][22],
auctions with resale [12][5], etc. In these existing studies, the
resale activities are often conducted by large oﬄine agencies
or brokers. However, online resale activities are also a signif-
icant part of the resale markets. Therefore, understanding
patterns and nature of the e-commerce resale activities is
much needed. Since the resellers often purchase and sell
items on the same online platform, the data will capture
the complete activity from purchase to sale, which is de-
sired for a comprehensive study. Online marketplaces, e.g.
eBay, Amazon and Taobao, have been studied in various
areas for web mining and modeling, including auction mod-
els [4][20][21], bidding and selling strategies [10][26], reputa-
tion models [14][23][25] and fraud detection [24]. Although
resale is a vital component of online market, there is little
research addressing this topic. To the best of our knowl-
edge, this is the ﬁrst work on empirical studies of resales in
a real-world web-scale marketplace.

In this paper, we study the resale market from data ob-
tained from a leading online marketplace vendor, i.e., eBay.
There are about 100 million active users on eBay. Among
tens of thousands worth of items sold every minute, a large
number of the transactions are resales. As discussed above,
we focus on those resale activities that occur exclusively at
eBay because of the data availability. In other words, the
items are bought and sold again both on eBay. Although
the data we use throughout the paper is from eBay due to
the data availability, the proposed framework in this paper
is general and applicable to other online resale markets.

The intentions and methods of reselling can be diverse.
In some cases, the items are resold at higher prices, and the
resellers make proﬁts from them. In this case, the original
sale is considered under-priced. Understanding the reasons
for under-priced sales can help us better advise the sellers

1533to list items more eﬀectively and thus make the market-
place more eﬃcient. In addition, understanding the behav-
iors of resellers also help build a healthy online platform.
Therefore, studying resale activities has tremendous values
in suggesting business opportunities and building eﬀective
user applications. As part of knowledge discovery of such
activities, We summarize the research challenges below:

• Research Challenge #1: How to develop eﬀective cri-
teria to accurately identify resale activities? The con-
nections between the initial purchase and later resale
are often not evident due to the nature of e-commerce
marketplace. First, it is common that users use diﬀer-
ent accounts for buying and selling. Linking diﬀerent
accounts from the same person/family is necessary. In
addition, many users change item listings (i.e., sale
postings) while reselling. In other words, two seemly
diﬀerent listings may actually refer to the same good.

• Research Challenge #2: How to extract resale activi-
ties from extremely large-scale data sets? The criteria
mentioned in the ﬁrst challenge need to be applied on
petascale transaction data generated on the internet.
Furthermore, such data is from multiple sources and
heterogeneous in nature. Mining and analysis of such
large volume data bring great challenges.

• Research Challenge #3: Can we ﬁnd some interesting
insights from the obtained resale activities? We would
like to ﬁnd similar patterns among the resale activities
and understand the motivation for resale. Further-
more, we would like to quantitatively evaluate factors
that correlate to proﬁtability. Moreover, can we pre-
dict whether a resale transaction is proﬁtable? These
are important to understand the nature and dynamics
of the resale market.

With these challenges, this paper initiate a study of resale
markets at web-scale and makes the following contributions:
(1) We formalize the notations and deﬁnitions of resale min-
ing as the ﬁrst known work on this topic. (2) We propose
a complete framework to identify and extract resale activ-
ities from petabyte-scale data. (3) We qualitatively study
and analyze the heterogeneous resale data, and empirically
present the answers to the resale prediction task. (4) We
propose novel applications of the resale data to get insights.
The insights can not only boost the resale market, but can
also improve general buying and selling on the online mar-
ketplace. In addition, the proposed system can also be ex-
tended to analyze other user-to-user web applications.

Further Related Work: Previous research examined
the complex networks and graphs, but mostly on one as-
pect of mining tasks, such as classiﬁcation[17][34], cluster-
ing[9][2][33], outlier detection[3], community detection[19]
and social networks applications [16][11][32].

The paper is organized as following. In each section, we
will address one research challenge mentioned above.
In
Section 2, we introduce eﬀective criteria to accurately iden-
tify resale activities. Section 3 discusses the large-scale data
platform used to extract resale activities. Next, we demon-
strate our analysis and prediction of the resale market in
Section 4. Deployment and applications to online market-
places are discussed in Section 5.

Figure 1: Modeling Transactions as a Massive Graph
(Each node represents a user, and directed edges are
transactions among users.)

User B

Item x

Item y

Item x

Item y

User A

User A

(a)Exact M atching

(b)Elastic M atching

Figure 2: Resale Activity Identiﬁcation. Figure (b) con-
siders both account linking (blue dotted line) and elastic
item matching (red dashed line).

2.

IDENTIFYING RESALE ON THE WEB

In this paper, we conduct a systematic study on the resale
market, which is a vital component in the internet and e-
commerce. In this section, we deﬁne the criteria to identify
resale activities.

2.1 User-Transaction Network

Modern online marketplace is a complex peer-to-peer net-
work [28]. While we notice that the transactions happen
between users, we model the transaction activities as a mas-
sive graph among users. In Figure 1, we model the transac-
tions as a graph G = {V, E}, where V is the set of vertices
and E is the set of edges. Each vertex represents a user.
The user can both buy and sell, and (s)he can be either an
individual or business. Each edge between two vertices is
directed, from a user (seller) to another user (buyer). We
further note that each edge represents a transaction, which
contains information about the items purchased, transaction
times, prices, etc.

2.2 An Exact Matching Approach

In order to discover resale, the ﬁrst step is to set criteria
to identify resale activities.
In other words, what type of
activities can be regarded as reselling? Based on the deﬁ-
nition of resale, a resale activity should include the process
of selling again of something purchased by an entity. One
straightforward approach is to ﬁnd the activities that satisfy
the pattern in Figure 2(a). Formally, we deﬁne the resale
activity below:

Definition 1

(Exact Matching Identiﬁcation). A user

(User A) bought an item x and sold an item y. The sale ac-
tivity tuple (x, A, y) is a resale if it satisﬁes the following
constraints:

(a) Item Constraint: Item x and item y should be in
diﬀerent transactions, but they have to refer to the identical
good.

(b) Time Constraint: The purchase time of item x is

earlier than the purchase time of item y.

1534In the above deﬁnition, the time constraint (b) is easy to
check by comparing the timestamps of two transactions.
The problem is how to determine whether the item con-
straint (a) is satisﬁed, i.e. if two items from diﬀerent trans-
actions actually refer to the same good. Although Universal
Product Code (UPC) is ideal for identifying unique goods,
it is not common for items in a real-world e-commerce mar-
ketplace to include UPC. A straightforward approach is to
compare the titles of two items. For example, if the titles of
items x and y are the same or use the same set of words, then
x and y are the same; otherwise they are diﬀerent goods.

2.3 Identifying Resale Via Elastic Matching

However, the exact matching identiﬁcation is clearly not
an appropriate criterion. On the one hand, the user A may
change the title of item y in order to boost sales. For exam-
ple, the item x was initially not listed with a suitable title.
It is highly likely that item x would be sold at a low price.
User A found this fact, and immediately bought this item.
(S)he later listed the same product just bought using a more
descriptive title, thus had a potential to sell at a higher price
and make proﬁts. Therefore, exact matching of item titles
will miss a lot of meaningful resale activities.
It is much
desired that an elastic matching of items can be used to
accurately identify resales.

On the other hand, the pattern in Figure 2(a) will not
capture all resale activities due to the limitation of using the
single account matching. A lot of people on a real-world e-
commerce marketplace have more than one account. Mean-
while, members of a family might have their own individual
accounts. For example, a person can have an account for
selling and another account for buying because of privacy.
Another scenario might be the husband bought some prod-
ucts online, and later his wife resold again because she did
not like them. We call this type of user behavior in reselling
as account transfer.

Therefore, a more general identiﬁcation approach is pro-
posed to address the above two issues, which is shown in Fig-
ure 2(b). Suppose the accounts of the same person/family
are linked together, and the link is illustrated using the blue
dotted line; and items referring to the identical goods are
linked using the red dashed line. We want to discover the
resale activities that satisfy:

Definition 2

(Elastic Matching Identiﬁcation [EMI]).

A user (User A) bought an item x and another user (User
B) sold an item y. The sale activity tuple (x, A, B, y) is a
resale if it satisﬁes the following constraints:

(a) Item Constraint: Item x and item y should be in
diﬀerent transactions, but they have a similarity score which
is greater than a threshold α.

(b) Time Constraint: The purchase time of item x is

earlier than the purchase time of item y.

(c) Account Constraint: User A and User B are linked

because they belong to the same person or family (entity).

The deﬁnition of EMI will help identify the case that re-
sellers change the content of listings as well as the resale
activities coming through account transfer. In the Item Con-
straint, a similarity function is needed to measure the simi-
larity of two items. On e-commerce marketplaces, there are
mainly three attributes to describe items: Titles, Descrip-
tions and Photos. Descriptions are noisy which contains
many irrelevant content, such as sellers’ own stories, refund

policies and shipping charges. In the meantime, usually the
descriptions are lengthy, thus the computational costs of de-
scription similarity matching make it infeasible in a large-
scale data environment. For Photos, even the state-of-art
image comparison techniques cannot achieve satisfactory ac-
curacy, and they are all ineﬀective for massive data. Consid-
ering the above limitations, we use the Jaccard similarity of
item titles as the similarity function, which provides a good
trade-oﬀ between accuracy and eﬃciency. Previous studies
[15][29] in a similar context, QA archives, also demonstrate
that using titles rather than descriptions for the similarity
measure is of highest eﬀectiveness. Let the titles of items x
and y are Tx and Ty respectively. The similarity function
between items x and y is deﬁned as:

similarity(x, y) =

|Tx T Ty|
|Tx S Ty|

where |Tx T Ty| denotes the number of common words in Tx
and Ty, and |Tx S Ty| denotes the number of unique words
in Tx and Ty.

If the similarity score of two items is greater than a given
threshold α, the items are considered to be identical. While
we understand that for any two random items x and y, even
their similarity score is high enough, it is not necessary that
they are the identical goods, because they may be diﬀerent
goods but the same type of product. However, considering
the account constraint and time constraint, it is required
that both items should be bought/sold by the same entity,
and the purchase activities are in sequential order. Thus,
these ensure that items satisfying above constraints refer to
the identical goods.

3. EXTRACTING RESALE ACTIVITIES

In this section, we present how to extract resale activi-
ties from large-scale data sets at an e-commerce site given
the criteria of resale activity identiﬁcation in the previous
section.

3.1 MapReduce Framework

In order to present how to extract resale activities, we
ﬁrst brieﬂy describe the MapReduce framework. MapRe-
duce [8] is a programming framework to support compu-
tation on large-scale data sets in distributed environments.
The advantages of MapReduce are (1) the ability to run jobs
in parallel (2) automatic management of data replication,
transfer, load balancing, etc., and (3) the standardization
of Map and Reduce procedures and concepts. MapReduce
has been successfully adopted by many companies to handle
massive data, including Yahoo, Google, Amazon, eBay, etc.

A typical MapReduce framework mainly contains two steps:

Map step and Reduce step. The details of MapReduce can
be found in [8] and [18]. Large e-commerce sites usually store
multi-petabyte data on distributed machines. Therefore, we
use MapReduce paradigm to extract resale activities from
large-scale e-commerce transaction data.

3.2 Proposed Algorithms

Based on Deﬁnition 2, evaluating whether a transaction is
a resale transaction requires to verify the account constraint,
time constraint and item constraint. For account constraint,
users from the same person/family should be grouped to-
gether as a user entity. The grouping policy includes match-
ing of names, gender, addresses and user behaviors. Since

1535ALGORITHM 1: Account Matching
Input: Account Linking Table: acc = {(entity id, user id)};
Transaction Table: tran = {(item id, buyer id, seller id, item)}

Account-Matching-Map(Table acc, Table tran)
begin

for each (entity id, user id) ∈ acc do

Output key-value pair (user id, entity id);

end
for each (item id, buyer id, seller id, item) ∈ tran do
Output key-value pair (buyer id, (tag:“buy”, item));
Output key-value pair (seller id, (tag:“sell”, item));

ALGORITHM 2: Item Matching

Input: Output from Account Matching

Item-Matching-Map(Key k, Value v)
begin

Output key-value pair (k, v);

end

Item-Matching-Reduce(Key k, Value v[1...m])
begin

buying list, selling list = empty;
for each v ∈ v[1...m] do

end

end

Account-Matching-Reduce(Key k, Value v[1...m])
begin

output key = null;
for each v ∈ v[1...m] do

if v is of type ID then

output key ← v; break;

end

end
for each v ∈ v[1...m] do

if v is of type (tag,item) then

Output key-value pair (output key, v);

end

end

end

if tag == “buy” then

add v into buying list;

end
if tag == “sell” then

add v into selling list;

end

end
for each v ∈ buying list do

for each v′ ∈ selling list do

if v.timestamp < v′.timestamp &&
similarity(v, v′) > α then

Output resale activity (v, k, v′);

end

end

end

end

     

 

Buying List 

Stream 

 
A 
 

B 

C 

A

B 

C 

user grouping is not the focus of this study, we assume the
user grouping data are pre-computed. All user entities have
unique entity IDs and multiple accounts from the same per-
son/family are linked to the same entity ID. For item con-
straint, a similarity function is applied to item titles, and
the similarity score is used to determine if the two items
represent the same good. Usually the transaction data on
e-commerce sites are stored in diﬀerent tables. For the sim-
plicity of algorithm description, we assume all transaction
data are stored in one table. This table can be regarded as
the join result of a list of transaction related tables.

We propose a two-stage framework to extract resale ac-
tivities. The ﬁrst stage is to correlate items with the entity
IDs to handle account transfer problem. The second stage
is to generate resale transactions bought and sold by the
same entity IDs based on elastic item matching and time
constraint.

The pseudo code of the ﬁrst stage is illustrated in Al-
gorithm 1. In the Map step, the inputs are pre-computed
account linking table and a table including all transaction
data. A pair containing each user id and its correspond-
ing entity id is sent to the reducer. In order to capture the
buying and selling information, each item in transactions is
mapped to two key-value pairs, i.e., a pair taking buyer id as
the key and a pair taking seller id as the key. The type in-
formation regarding to buying or selling is stored as a tag for
future processing. In the Reduce step of account matching,
the entity id of the user (stored in key k) is ﬁrst obtained.
Then we substitute the user id k for the entity id, and send
all items associated with the same user to the next stage.
Through the ﬁrst stage, all items are linked to the entity ID.
Thus even transactions from two diﬀerent accounts belonged
to the same person/family, they are aggregated in one place.
In the second stage, the idea is to create two lists of items
associated with the same entity id using the output of the
ﬁrst stage. For each entity, we collect its all purchased items
and add into buying list. Similarly, we get its all sold items

 

 

 

Selling List 

B’ 

C’ 

 
A’ 
 

 

 

 

Hard Disk 

A’ 

B’ 

C’ 

Output Resale 

Similarity 

Function 

Memory 

Figure 3: System Illustration: Stream-based Reducer.
Lists being partitioned and read sequentially to resolve
insuﬃcient memory problem.

and put into selling list. The tag created in the ﬁrst stage
is used to decide which list a given item should be added
into. It is clear that a resale activity must contain one item
from buying list and one item from selling list. Thus, we
further perform a pair-wise similarity matching of two lists,
and if two items satisfy both item constraint and time con-
straint, they are output as resale activities. The details of
the second stage can be found in Algorithm 2. Although the
algorithms are described under the resale market context, we
note that the proposed algorithms can be easily generalized
to diﬀerent applications which require matching.

3.3 Stream-based Approach

As shown in Algorithm 2, we can see that two item lists
have to be stored in the memory. In a global e-commerce
marketplace, it is not rare that a single user buys or sells mil-
lions of products annually. Therefore, Algorithm 2 becomes
infeasible while handling such large-scale data. To make the
algorithm work in practice, we extend Algorithm 2 to solve
the insuﬃcient memory problem. Inspired by [31], we intro-
duce a stream-based MapReduce approach for Algorithm 2.
We note that the proposed stream-based method is interest-
ing in its own right as a general method for reducing memory
requirement for large-scale MapReduce tasks, and may be
useful for a number of diﬀerent web-scale applications.

1536The stream-based reduce step is illustrated in Figure 3.
The buying list and selling list in Algorithm 2 are fur-
ther partitioned into blocks (buying list → (A, B, C) and
selling list → (A′, B′, C ′)). The size of blocks depends on
the actual memory size of local machines. The blocks of one
list are stored on the hard disk to prevent insuﬃcient mem-
ory. In Figure 3, we store blocks of selling list (A′, B′, C ′)
on the hard disk. Each block from selling list is read se-
quentially from the hard disk, and only one block can be
stored in the memory at any given time. The blocks from
buying list (A, B, C) are sent as streams and match with
the block of selling list in the memory. As shown in Figure
3, blocks A′, B′, C ′ will be sequentially loaded into mem-
ory and match with block A from buying list. After block
A has matched with all blocks from selling list, it can be
safely removed from the memory, and the next block B from
selling list can be streamed in.

4. EXPLORING RESALE MARKET

After resale activities are collected, we explore what can
In order to better
be discovered from the resale market.
understand the market, we apply data mining techniques
and address two main problems in this section:

(1) Observations: What does the resale market look
like? How large is the resale market? Who are doing re-
sales? Why are they doing resales? Do diﬀerent regional
markets show similar patterns?

(2) Prediction: What factors lead to a successful (prof-
itable) resale? Given a list of features, can we predict if a
resale activity will be proﬁtable?

4.1 Experiment Setup

We use an open source implementation of MapReduce,
Hadoop1, to extract resale activities. The Hadoop cluster
stores over 10 petabytes transaction data from the market-
place. For the extracted resale activities satisfying pattern
tuple (x, A, B, y) in Figure 2(b), we further obtain a list of
attributes associated with users A, B and items x, y from
the Hadoop cluster to analyze. As listed in Table 1, 24
attributes of resale activities from multiple sources are cap-
tured. Attributes related to x and A are listed in the type
Buying Related, and attributes related to B and y are listed
in the type Selling Related. Feedback scores are used to mea-
sure the overall rating of users. Generally speaking, a user
with high feedback score is often an experienced seller/buyer
with good reputation. Each user has two feedback scores:
feedback as seller and feedback as buyer, which represent the
user’s selling and buying performance, respectively.

4.2 Validation

In order to study the eﬀectiveness of the resale activity
identiﬁcation by elastic matching identiﬁcation (EMI), we
measure the correctness of matched resale activities and test
the sensitivity of the parameter of EMI, i.e., the similarity
threshold α. We compare our method against the exact
matching approach in Section 2.2 as the baseline. Since we
do not directly have the ground truth, we use items sold on
eBay which are associated with the eBay product catalog2
as the validation data set. The product information of those
items is either manually added by sellers or identiﬁed by a

1http://hadoop.apache.org/
2http://pages.ebay.com/help/sell/product-details.html

Table 1: Extracted Attributes Related to Resale That
Cover Feedback, Title, Time, Price, Categories, etc.

Type

Buying Related

Selling Related

Attributes
the original seller id, his/her feedback as seller,
his/her feedback as buyer, buyer’s entity id, user
id, his/her feedback as seller, his/her feedback
as buyer, item id, item title, purchase date, item
price, site id, leaf category name, meta category
name
seller’s user id, his/her feedback as seller,
his/her feedback as buyer, item id, item title,
purchase date, item price, site id, leaf category
name, meta category name

1

0.8

 

y
c
a
r
u
c
c
A

0.6

0.4

0.2

0

0.9542 

0.9674 

0.9703 

0.9782 

0.9335 

521 

473 

435 

417 

376 

600

500

400

300

200

100

0

 
s
d
n
a
s
u
o
h
T

 

#
o
f
 
R
e
s
a
e

l

 
 
L
i
s
t
e
d
w

 

 

i
t
h
C
a
t
a
o
g

l

 

0.8

0.85

0.9
(cid:626) 

0.95

Exact Matching 

((cid:626)(cid:1089)(cid:1005)(cid:895) 

Figure 4: Accuracy Results with Threshold α. The line
shows the accuracy scores (left Y-scale) by varying α and
the bars represent the corresponding number of resale
activities (right Y-scale) in thousands.

combination of UPC, brand, model and ISBN (for books).
For each resale activity as tuple (x, A, B, y), we examine if
items x and y belong to the same product in the catalog,
and calculate the accuracy score to evaluate the proposed
elastic matching method. One should note that we do not
use the catalog information to obtain resale data due to its
limited coverage. We only use the catalog information for
evaluation purpose.

The results are reported in Figure 4. The threshold α is
illustrated on the X-axis, the accuracy of EMI is illustrated
on the left Y-axis and the number of resale activities with
catalog information is presented on the right Y-axis. The
line shows the accuracy scores by varying α and the bars
present the corresponding number of resale activities. α be-
ing set to 1 corresponds to the exact matching approach,
which is shown as the baseline. From the ﬁgure, one can
observe that the number of resale activities is 376k for ex-
act matching. For EMI, the number goes up to 521k while
setting α to 0.8, which is 36.4% more than that of exact
matching. From the eﬀectiveness perspective, the accuracy
score of exact matching is 0.9782, because of the noises in
the real data set. Some sellers manually typed wrong prod-
uct information, which causes mismatch even the titles of
buying and reselling items are exactly the same. We further
notice that the accuracy of EMI is over 93% while setting
α is 0.8. This clearly shows the proposed elastic matching
approach is highly accurate, and its obtained resale activ-
ities are indeed meaningful. We can also observe that the
accuracy score further gains with the increase of α, while
the number of resale activities decreases. This is quite nat-

1537 
s
r
e

l
l

e
s
e
R
 
f
o
%

 

1.E+00

1.E-01

1.E-02

1.E-03

1.E-04

1.E-05

1.E-06

new 

3g 

cord 

1.8E-03

1.5E-03

1.2E-03

9.0E-04

6.0E-04

clear 

1000mah 

cases 

black 

white 

neu 

uk 

subscription 

4g  2010 

mint 

1.E+00

1.E+01

1.E+02

1.E+03

1.E+04

1.E+05

Number of Resale Activities 

nano 

film 

dvd 

game 

2009 

other 

3.0E-04

0.0E+00

Figure 5: Distribution of the Number of Resale Activi-
ties. We note that the number of resale activities follows
a power-law distribution with a long tail.

Figure 6: Top Keywords Added to Resale Listings.
These frequently added keywords reﬂect the most com-
mon attributes that resellers think users care about.

ural since a tighter constraint on the title similarity reduces
the chances of mismatch, but it also misses many reselling.
By increasing α from 0.8 to 0.9, the improvement in accu-
racy is 3.39% but the number of obtained resale activities
reduces 16.51%. Considering the tradeoﬀ between accuracy
and quantity, we use α = 0.8 in the following analyses. Un-
der this setting, we obtain a sample that includes over 13
million resale activities from the Hadoop cluster.

4.3 Observations and Analyses

The sample of resale activities is from over 30 regional
sites, which cover 35 meta categories. In the following study,
we analyze the resale market from various key perspectives
and provide some interesting observations related to online
resale.

Who Is Reselling? We ﬁrst investigate the number of
resellers and their resale patterns. We plot the distribution
of the number of resale activities in Figure 5 on a log-log
scale. The X-axis represents the number of resale activities
per user, whereas the Y-axis shows the proportion of resellers
who did the corresponding number of resales. From the
ﬁgure, one can observe that resale follows a heavy-tailed
distribution. Interestingly, top 10% resellers contribute 43%
of resale activities. 68% of the resellers have only a single
resale and they provide 18% of all resale activities. The
ﬁgure shows that a large portion of users that resell very
few times and a signiﬁcant number of resale activities come
from a small group of top highly active resellers. In addition,
the trend interestingly follows a power-law distribution:

f (x) ∝ x−β

-0.4

-0.2

0

0.2

0.4

Figure 7: Average Relative Price Diﬀerence Versus
Word Frequency. Note that X-axis and Y-axis denote
the average relative price diﬀerence (ARPD) and word
frequency, respectively. The higher the ARPD score, the
more likely it is for resale to have proﬁts by adding the
given keyword.

where x represents the number of resale activities and β is
computed to be 2.233.

What Content Do Resellers Change? On e-commerce
sites, search results are mostly based on titles. Hence, many
experienced sellers optimize titles to achieve better sales. We
perform text analysis on the content that resellers added to
new listings. For each resale activity, we obtain the added
words from the reselling transactions, remove stop words
and summarize them into an aggregated word cloud view in
Figure 6. We observe that adding the keyword “new” is the
most frequent as the largest tag cloud item. In summary, the
most common words resellers added are the descriptions of
product conditions ((brand) new, sealed, mint, etc.), colors
(white, black, pink, etc.), appealing functions (game, dvd,
clear, etc.), detailed speciﬁcations (1000amh, 3g, 4g, etc.)
and years (2009, 2010, etc.). Actually these keywords cor-
respond to the most common attributes that resellers think
users care about.

In addition, to study the eﬀectiveness of added words, we
present a case study on the top 20 words with their frequen-
cies and average relative price diﬀerences in Figure 7. The
average relative price diﬀerence (ARPD) of a given word w
is deﬁned as

P(x,A,B,y)∈S,w /∈Tx ,w∈Ty

Py −Px

max(Py ,Px)

|{(x, A, B, y)} : (x, A, B, y) ∈ S, w /∈ Tx, w ∈ Ty}|

where the set S contains all resale activities of the pattern
tuple (x, A, B, y). Tx and Ty represent the titles of items x
and y, and Px and Py denote the corresponding prices. A
positive ARPD score means the resale price is greater than
the buying price, and vice versa. Clearly, higher ARPD rep-
resents greater resale values achieved by adding the word w.
From the ﬁgure, we observe that “new” is the most frequently
added words by resellers, and it is indeed quite eﬀective in
terms of resale values. Similarly, “mint” and “neu” (new in
German) also have positive eﬀects to increase resale prices.
The word “cord” has a very high ARPD score. The reason is
that it is usually associated with resales on accessaries such
as adapters, cables and power supplies. Many such items
were ﬁrst bought from sellers in China and resold at higher
prices to buyers in USA and UK. We further observe that

1538Table 2: Top 10 Resale Categories. Most signiﬁcant
categories are related to books or electronics.

Category
Clothes, Shoes & Accessories
Used Books
Computers & Networking
Consumer Electronics
Video Games
Phones
Home & Garden
Cell Phones & PDAs
Books
Movies

% of Total Resale

11.1%
9.7%
7.1%
6.2%
5.9%
5.8%
4.3%
4.1%
3.3%
3.0%

Table 3: Resale Activities on Regional Sites and Cross-
sites. We observe that resale is an international and
cross-border phenomenon.

Description
Same Site: USA
Same Site: UK
Same Site: Germany
Same Site: Other
USA ⇒ Other
Other ⇒ USA
Other ⇒ Other

% of Total Resale

37%
34%
16%
7%
3%
1%
2%

some other eﬀective words are related to appealing func-
tions, detailed speciﬁcations and years. Interestingly, adding
words on colors do not increase resale prices in many cases.
We note that “1000mah” especially has a low ARPD score.
The reason is that this word is strongly tied with batter-
ies which are considered as consumables, and batteries are
priced fairly lower if used.

What Are the Top Categories of Resale? We list
the top 10 resale categories in terms of percentile in Table
2. “Clothing, Shoes & Accessories” is the largest category
in the resale market, and followed by “Used Books”. In the
meanwhile, many categories related to electronics appear in
the top 10 list, including “Cell Phones & PDAs”, “Computers
& Networking”, ”Consumer Electronics”, “Phones”, etc.

Is Resale an International Activity? Table 3 shows
the resale activity distribution on diﬀerent regional sites. We
can learn from the spatial analysis that most resold items
are purchased and sold on the same regional sites. The three
largest resale markets are USA, UK and Germany, probably
because of the popularity of online shopping in these three
countries. We also notice cross border resale activities. 5%
of resale activities are purchased on one site but resold on
another site. 3% of resale activities are bought on the USA
site and resold on other sites.

What is the Correlation Between User Reputation
and Price? In order to analyze the relationship between
reputation and price, we plot the average relative price dif-
ference versus user feedback in Figure 8. We normalize the
user feedback to range [0 : 1], and a higher score represents
the given user has a more positive rating. The average rel-
ative price diﬀerence with respect to feedback is deﬁned as

Pf (B)∈[ri,ri+1) P(x,A,B,y)∈S

Py−Px

max(Py,Px)

|{(x, A, B, y)} : (x, A, B, y) ∈ S, f (B) ∈ [ri, ri+1)}|

where f (B) is the feedback score of user B and [ri, ri+1) is a
given feedback score range. Higher ARPD represents greater

 

 

e
c
n
e
r
e
f
f
i
D
e
c
i
r
P
e
v
i
t
a
e
R

l

 

0.15

0.1

0.05

0

0

-0.05

-0.1

0.2

0.4

0.6

0.8

1

User Feedback Score 

Figure 8: Average Relative Price Diﬀerence Versus User
Feedback. Users in an online world with higher repu-
tation tend to resell with larger proﬁts. The red line
illustrates a linear function that the data roughly ﬁt.

 

l

 
s
e
i
t
i
v
i
t
c
A
e
a
s
e
R
 
f
o
 
r
e
b
m
u
N

 
s
d
n
a
s
u
o
h
T

45

40

35

30

25

20

15

10

5

0

1

51

101

151

201

251

301

351

Holding Time (in days) 

Figure 9: How Long Do Resellers Hold Items Before
Resell. We note there is a peak in the range from 10 to
30 days.

proﬁts achieved. There is an obvious trend that users with
higher feedback scores achieve larger price increase, mostly
because of the positive eﬀects of online trust built in an
online world. Although markets are considered stochastic,
we can still observe that the data well ﬁt a linear function
(R2 of 0.755).

How Long Do Resellers Hold Items? We show the
temporal analysis that resellers hold items before resell in
Figure 9. Clearly, most resellers hold items for less than
6 months. In particular, there is a signiﬁcant peak in the
range from 10 to 30 days. This indicates most resale activi-
ties happen almost immediately after the buyers receive the
merchandise. It can also be concluded that very few resellers
hold items for over one year to resell.

4.4 Prediction

As we have found many interesting insights of the resale
market from the analysis above, we focus on the fact of suc-
cessful resales in this subsection. From Figure 8, some re-
sellers are making proﬁts through resale activities, whereas
some other users lose money. In order to have a quantita-
tive understanding of what lead to a successful resale, we
ﬁrst analyze the features related to the proﬁtability of re-
sale. Then we use classiﬁcation models to predict if a resale
activity will be proﬁtable given a set of features.

1539Type

Feature

Table 4: Base Features Obtained for the Prediction Task

Description

Feedback ORG SELLER FDBK AS SLR the feedback as seller of the original seller who sells the good to resellers

ORG SELLER FDBK AS BYR the feedback as buyer of the original seller
BUY FDBK AS SLR
BUY FDBK AS BYR
SELL FDBK AS SLR
SELL FDBK AS BYR
BUY AUCT TITL
SELL AUCT TITL
BUY DATE
SELL DATE
BUY SITE ID
SELL SITE ID

the feedback as seller of the account reseller used to buy the good
the feedback as buyer of the account reseller used to buy the good
the feedback as seller of the account reseller used to resell the good
the feedback as buyer of the account reseller used to resell the good
the title in the buying transaction
the title in the reselling transaction
the purchase date of the buying transaction
the purchase date of the reselling transaction
the buying transaction’s listed regional site
the reselling transaction’s listed regional site
the leaf category of the buying transaction
the leaf category of the reselling transaction
the meta category of the buying transaction
the meta category of the reselling transaction
the number of photos in the buying transaction
the number of photos in the reselling transaction
the shipping fee in the buying transaction
the shipping fee in the reselling transaction
the number of items in the buying transaction
the number of items in the reselling transaction
the purchase price in the buying transaction

Title

Time

Site

Category BUY LEAF CATEG ID
SELL LEAF CATEG ID
BUY META CATEG ID
SELL META CATEG ID
BUY PHOTO COUNT
SELL PHOTO COUNT

Photo

Shipping BUY SHIPPING FEE
SELL SHIPPING FEE

Quantity BUY QUANTITY
SELL QUANTITY
BUY ITEM PRICE

Price

4.4.1 Features Comparison

In order to build the classiﬁcation models, we obtain a
set of related features. For the problems of resale activities
classiﬁcation and prediction, the class labels are set to be
binary, which are either TRUE (proﬁtable) or FALSE (not
proﬁtable). For the classiﬁcation purpose, we have obtained
a list of base features from heterogeneous sources including
transactions, user proﬁles, categories, sites, etc. They are
listed in Table 4. There are 23 base features in total, which
are related to 9 types:

• Feedback. The feedback is a score to measure the
users performance. Can a user with higher feedback
score sell with high proﬁtability? Note that each resale
activity is associated with two transactions: a buying
transaction and a reselling transaction. Thus, separate
features are created for both buying transactions and
reselling transactions.

• Title. As we have shown in Figures 6 and 7, many
resellers changed the listing titles for reselling. Does
the length of title aﬀect sale prices? Are titles the
longer the better?

• Time. Do resale activities vary by seasons? Is there

a ‘best time’ for reselling?

• Site. Do diﬀerent regional markets show similar resale
patterns? Which regional market is best for reselling?

• Category. We obtain both meta category and leaf
category of each item. For example, for an iPod, its
meta category is “Consumer Electronics”, and its leaf
category is “iPod & MP3 Players”. Diﬀerent categories
may have diﬀerent resale performances.

• Photo. Does the number of photos aﬀect resale? “A
picture is worth a thousand words.” Can uploading

more photos have a better presentation of products
and thus boost sales?

• Shipping. The shipping charge is how much con-
sumers need to pay for the shipping of the merchan-
dise. Does free shipping help sales?

• Quantity. The number of goods sold in one transac-

tion.

• Price. The price of resellers paid to buy the goods.
The price of resellers resold is used to generate class
labels, hence it is not listed as a feature.

Furthermore, we obtain 12 more features derived from
base features. We show them in Table 5. The feature
SAME USER ID is used to model how account transfer can
aﬀect resales. 5 derived features are binary, e.g. SAME TITL,
SAME SITE, etc, which represent if there are some changes
of attributes between buying transactions and reselling trans-
actions. Two features related to the lengths of titles are
used to represent the eﬀects of titles. Furthermore, we ex-
tract month-of-the-year from date as another type of fea-
ture, which helps the model analyze the temporal eﬀects.
Other derived features present the numeric diﬀerences of at-
tributes, such as time and photo count.

For the 35 features including base features and derived
features,
it is important to test which features have the
most discriminative power in terms of proﬁtability. Hence
we measure the importance of features based on three cri-
teria, namely Gain Ratio (GR), Information Gain (IG) and
Chi-squared statistic (Chi). The top 15 discriminative fea-
tures for each criterion are illustrated in Figure 10. The
higher GR/IG/Chi score is, the higher discriminative power
the corresponding feature has. In addition, we link the same
features across diﬀerent criteria to illustrate the similarities
of the outputs.

From the ﬁgure, it is clear that the features selected by
the three criteria highly overlap. The results on Informa-

1540tion Gain and Chi-squared statistic are especially close. We
further observe that the feedback scores and leaf categories
are the most discriminative features, which are agreed by
all three criteria. It is quite natural that feedback scores are
important. The reason is that buyers trust sellers with high
feedback scores and sellers with high feedback scores are
more likely to have good selling skills. The leaf categories
are also discriminative. This suggests that products from
diﬀerent categories have diﬀerent resale potentials. For ex-
ample, reselling products in Consumer Electronics and Art
are easier to get better oﬀers, whereas reselling in Clothing
and Shoes is much more diﬃcult to being proﬁtable. Be-
sides feedback scores and categories, TITL LEN DIFF and
SAME TITL are also two discriminative features. Clearly
it represents a carefully rewritten title will beneﬁt resales.
Overall, the most important features are related to category,
feedback and title. Besides the features listed in Figure 10,
BUY MONTH and SELL MONTH are also two interesting
features worth to mention. Through our further analysis of
data, we ﬁnd that usually buying in the summer and sell-
ing in December and January will make the best proﬁts.
The reason might be a lot of people are on vacation dur-
ing summer time, so it is a low season with fewer buyers
and bidders. And December and January are the holiday
seasons that bring more people to shop online.

4.4.2 Model Comparison

Next, we investigate the prediction of resale activities us-
ing the base and derived features. We construct a number of
feature sets corresponding to feature types, and build classi-
ﬁers for each feature type as baselines. We further compare
those classiﬁers with the classiﬁer built on all features. We
split the data into 75% as the training set and 25% as the
testing set. SVM is used as the classiﬁcation model. We
evaluate the performance on four metrics: Precision, Re-
call, F-score, and ROC. For all these four measure, the
higher scores represent the better performance.

The classiﬁcation results on various feature sets are illus-
trated in Table 6. Among all separate feature sets, Category
achieves the best performance, with an accuracy score at
65.3%. It suggests the proﬁtability of resale depends largely
on what categories the items are listed in. This exactly
matches our previous feature analysis in Figure 10. We fur-
ther discover that the model with all features outperforms
the baseline models with separate feature sets. These results
demonstrate that diﬀerent features provide diﬀerent insights
on predictions. Data mining techniques can automatically
learn the importance of diﬀerent feature types and output
satisfactory results with all features considered. We further
test 4 additional classiﬁcation models and list the results
in Table 7. The overall best classiﬁer we test is the Deci-
sion Tree, with an accuracy score of 75.4% and an F-score of
0.826. It gives an 8% improvement over the SVM model and
a 17% improvement over the Na¨ıve Bayes model. All the re-
sults are clear evidences that the selected base and derived
features are indeed essential, and data mining techniques
can generate satisfactory performance for resale market pre-
dictions.

5. APPLICATIONS

So far, we have analyzed the resale market and studied
the prediction on the proﬁtability of resale activities.
In
this section, we discuss the eBay applications of the ﬁndings

Table 6: Eﬀectiveness of Various Feature Sets. The
model that combines all features outperforms baselines
with standalone feature sets on all measures.

Feature
Feedback

Title
Time
Site

Category

Photo

Shipping
Quantity

All

Accuracy Precision Recall
0.582
0.566
0.546
0.543
0.653
0.536
0.584
0.518
0.668

58.2%
56.6%
54.6%
54.3%
65.3%
53.5%
58.4%
51.8%
69.8%

0.640
0.567
0.547
0.543
0.653
0.564
0.588
0.608
0.755

F1

0.610
0.565
0.545
0.543
0.653
0.550
0.580
0.559
0.709

ROC
0.581
0.566
0.546
0.543
0.653
0.537
0.584
0.520
0.686

in previous sections. We show that, by incorporating the
classiﬁcation results, we can improve the eﬃciency of the
resale market and improve both buyer and seller experience
on web marketplaces.

From the classiﬁers we analyzed in the prediction section,
we use the decision tree as the model to demonstrate the
application scenarios. The advantages of using the decision
tree model are its accuracy and a list of classiﬁcation rules
it can generate. Those rules can be easily interpreted by
human beings and thus applied directly as business logics in
an e-commerce system. The decision tree model generates
over 18,000 rules in total for the resale activity classiﬁcation
task.

Since many rules generated by decision tree are either not
statistically signiﬁcant or not accurate enough for a real-
world system, we further set two ﬁlters to select highly reli-
able rules:

• the minimum support of selected rules is Smin

• the minimum conﬁdence of select rules is Cmin

Using these selected highly reliable rules ﬁltered by the mini-
mum support and minimum conﬁdence, we perform instance
matching for each resale activity. For each incoming resale
activity, if it satisﬁes one of the rules, the predicted label
should be extremely accurate, since all selected rules are
ﬁltered based on support and conﬁdence.

In the rest of this section, we give three example scenarios
on improving a real production e-commerce system with the
deployment of selected rules. We note that all these applica-
tions become possible and eﬀective because of the extremely
large data set and accurate prediction models.

Improving Reselling: Based on added words shown in
Figures 6 and 7, a recommender systems can be applicable to
suggest useful keywords according to frequencies and ARPD
scores to make the resale title more descriptive. Besides
text, we are also able to provide suggestions on category,
transaction time, photo, shipping fee, user feedback, etc.
Through our study of extracted rules, we ﬁnd that many of
them can be directly incorporated into the system and make
resales more eﬀective.

Improving General Buying: The selected reliable rules
can not only help resellers, but also improve the experience
of online shoppers. For example, when a buyer is browsing
an item, the system can match his/her proﬁle and the item
with selected rules, and provide more personalized sugges-
tions if the product has a high chance of resale.
In gen-
eral, useful information can be inferred from the classiﬁ-
cation model and be suggested to users. This feature can

1541Type

Account

Title

Time

Site

Category

Photo

Table 5: Derived Features Created for the Prediction Task

Description
binary: if account transfer occurred in the resale activity

Feature
SAME USER ID
BUY AUCT TITL LEN the length of title in the buying transaction
SELL AUCT TITL LEN the length of title in the reselling transaction
TITL LEN DIFF
SAME TITL
BUY MONTH
SELL MONTH
TIME DIFF
SAME SITE
SAME LEAF CATEG
SAME META CATEG
PHOTO COUNT DIFF

the diﬀerence between buying and selling title lengths
binary: if resellers change the titles
the purchase month of the year in the buying transaction
the purchase month of the year in the reselling transaction
the waiting period to resell = reselling time - buying time
binary: if the buying and selling transactions are on the same site
binary: if resellers change the leaf categories
binary: if resellers change the meta categories
the diﬀerence between buying and selling photo counts

GR 

Feature 

0.0257  SELL_FDBK_AS_SLR 

0.0233  BUY_LEAF_CATEG_ID 

0.0228  SELL_LEAF_CATEG_ID 

0.0198  SAME_SITE 

IG 

Feature 

0.2333 BUY_LEAF_CATEG_ID 

0.2280 SELL_LEAF_CATEG_ID 

0.1320 SELL_FDBK_AS_SLR 

0.1021 BUY_FDBK_AS_SLR 

0.0197  ORG_SELLER_FDBK_AS_SLR 

0.1017 ORG_SELLER_FDBK_AS_SLR 

0.0191  BUY_FDBK_AS_SLR 

0.0132  BUY_QUANTITY 

0.0116  BUY_ITEM_PRICE 

0.0103  SAME_TITL 

0.0101  BUY_FDBK_AS_BYR 

0.0085  SELL_FDBK_AS_BYR 

0.0068  TITL_LEN_DIFF 

0.0063  PHOTO_COUNT_DIFF 

0.0058  BUY_SHIPPING_FEE 

0.0047  SELL_META_CATEG_ID 

0.0716 BUY_ITEM_PRICE 

0.0545 BUY_FDBK_AS_BYR 

0.0448 SELL_FDBK_AS_BYR 

0.0229 SELL_META_CATEG_ID 

0.0220 BUY_META_CATEG_ID 

0.0207 BUY_SHIPPING_FEE 

0.0134 TITL_LEN_DIFF 

Chi 

Feature 

34601.15  BUY_LEAF_CATEG_ID 

34070.15  SELL_LEAF_CATEG_ID 

19950.67  SELL_FDBK_AS_SLR 

15656.42  ORG_SELLER_FDBK_AS_SLR 

15654.91  BUY_FDBK_AS_SLR 

12008.23  BUY_ITEM_PRICE 

9406.78  BUY_FDBK_AS_BYR 

7708.25  SELL_FDBK_AS_BYR 

4096.37  SELL_META_CATEG_ID 

3938.31  BUY_META_CATEG_ID 

3732.07  BUY_SHIPPING_FEE 

2463.13  TITL_LEN_DIFF 

0.0133 ORG_SELLER_FDBK_AS_BYR 

2380.58  ORG_SELLER_FDBK_AS_BYR 

0.0103 SAME_TITL 

0.0087 BUY_QUANTITY 

1913.55  SAME_TITL 

1448.55  BUY_QUANTITY 

Figure 10: Feature Analysis: Gain Ratio (GR), Information Gain (IG) and Chi-squared statistic (Chi)

Table 7: Eﬀectiveness of Various Models. The decision
tree model achieves the best performance on four out of
ﬁve measures.

Model

Na¨ıve Bayes

Log Regression
Decision Tree

Nearest Neighbor

Acc.
Pre.
64.6% 0.650
66.7% 0.669
75.4% 0.753
70.9% 0.709

Rec.
0.646
0.667
0.914
0.709

F1

0.644
0.666
0.826
0.709

ROC
0.710
0.710
0.718
0.721

be further integrated with commercial “Trade-in Programs”
provided by many online markets3. This will also potentially
increase the revenue of the whole marketplace.

Improving General Selling: After analyzing the se-
lected rules, we notice that many under-priced sales are due
to incorrectly or inappropriately listed categories. To ad-
dress incorrectly listed items, we may use an accurate clas-
siﬁer to suggest users other possible options. For those items
that are listed inappropriately, such as in “Everything Else”
or “Other” category, the system may infer the actual cate-
gories of the items based on titles, descriptions and photos,
and then advise the seller to sell at a more speciﬁc category
rather than the vague “Everything Else” or “Other” category.

6. CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE WORK

In this paper, we propose the ﬁrst systematic framework
to mine and analyze a large-scale online resale market. We
develop a stream-based MapReduce approach to process peta-

3http://instantsale.ebay.com, http://www.amazon.com/Trade-
In, http://www.bestbuy.com/site/Misc/Buy-Back-Program

scale data, and discover millions of resale activities through
elastic matching identiﬁcation (EMI) with high accuracy
(> 93%). We discover that resale activities follow a power
law distribution with a ‘long tail’ phenomenon, where a large
portion of them are contributed by a small number of highly
active resellers. In the meantime, resale is an international
and cross-border behaivor and appears in all diﬀerent cate-
gories of products. We observe that adding useful keywords
and building user trust in the online world have positive ef-
fects towards resale values. We further utilize data mining
models to empirically evaluate a number of features from
diﬀerent sources and predict the proﬁtability of resale ac-
tivities. Finally we propose three application scenarios to
demonstrate how to incorporate the above models to a real-
world e-commerce marketplace.
It will not only increase
revenues in terms of resale but also improve both general
buyer and seller experience on web markets.

In our future work, we will consider developing a simi-
larity matching method by incorporating the entities and
semantics of listing items that can scale to web-scale data
sets. We will also consider applying the proposed system to
other user-to-user web applications.

7. ACKNOWLEDGMENT

The ﬁrst author was a summer intern at eBay Research

Labs while this work was done.

15428. REFERENCES
[1] http://www.kronikmedia.co.uk/blog/

content-curation-benefits/4433.

[2] C. C. Aggarwal, Y. Zhao, and P. S. Yu. On clustering

graph streams. In SDM, pages 478–489, 2010.

[3] C. C. Aggarwal, Y. Zhao, and P. S. Yu. Outlier

detection in graph streams. ICDE ’11, pages 399–409,
2011.

[4] P. Bajari and A. Hortacsu. The winner’s curse, reserve

prices, and endogenous entry: empirical insights from
ebay auctions. RAND Journal of Economics, pages
329–355, 2003.

[5] S. Bukhchandani and C. Huang. Auctions with resale

markets: An exploratory model of treasury bill
markets. Review of Financial Studies, 2(3):311–339,
1989.

[6] P. Chinloy. An empirical model of the market for

resale homes. Journal of Urban Economics,
7(3):279–292, 1980.

[7] P. Courty. Some economics of ticket resale. The

Journal of Economic Perspectives, 17(2):85–97, 2003.

[8] J. Dean, S. Ghemawat, and G. Inc. Mapreduce:

simpliﬁed data processing on large clusters. 2004.

[9] I. Dhillon, Y. Guan, and B. Kulis. A fast kernel-based

multilevel algorithm for graph clustering. In KDD,
pages 629–634, New York, NY, USA, 2005.

[10] Q. Duong, N. Sundaresan, N. Parikh, and Z. Shen.

Modeling seller listing strategies. Agent-Mediated El.
Comm, 2010.

[11] S. Guo, M. Wang, and J. Leskovec. The role of social

networks in online shopping: information passing,
price of trust, and consumer choice. In Y. Shoham,
Y. Chen, and T. Roughgarden, editors, ACM EC,
pages 157–166, 2011.

[12] P. Haile. Auctions with private uncertainty and resale

opportunities. Journal of Economic Theory,
108(1):72–110, 2003.

[13] A. Hosios and J. Pesando. Measuring prices in resale

housing markets in canada: Evidence and
implications*. Journal of Housing Economics,
1(4):303–317, 1991.

[14] D. Houser and J. Wooders. Reputation in auctions:

Theory, and evidence from ebay. Journal of Economics
& Management Strategy, 15(2):353–369, 2006.

[15] J. Jeon, W. B. Croft, and J. H. Lee. Finding similar

questions in large question and answer archives.
CIKM ’05, pages 84–90, New York, NY, USA.

[16] H. Kautz, B. Selman, and M. Shah. Referral web:

combining social networks and collaborative ﬁltering.
Commun. ACM, 40:63–65, March 1997.

[17] T. Kudo, E. Maeda, and Y. Matsumoto. An

application of boosting to graph classiﬁcation, 2004.

[18] R. L¨ammel. Google’s mapreduce programming model -
revisited. Sci. Comput. Program., 68:208–237, October
2007.

[19] J. Leskovec, K. J. Lang, and M. Mahoney. Empirical

comparison of algorithms for network community
detection. WWW, pages 631–640, New York, NY,
USA, 2010.

[20] D. Lucking-Reiley. Auctions on the internet: What ֒a´rs
being auctioned, and how? The Journal of Industrial
Economics, 48(3):227–252, 2000.

[21] D. Lucking-Reiley, D. Bryan, N. Prasad, and

D. Reeves. Pennies from ebay: The determinants of
price in online auctions. The Journal of Industrial
Economics, 55(2):223–233, 2007.

[22] H. Marvel and S. McCaﬀerty. Resale price

maintenance and quality certiﬁcation. The RAND
Journal of Economics, pages 346–359, 1984.

[23] M. Melnik and J. Alm. Does a seller ֒a´rs ecommerce

reputation matter? evidence from ebay auctions. The
journal of industrial economics, 50(3):337–349, 2002.

[24] S. Pandit, D. Chau, S. Wang, and C. Faloutsos.

Netprobe: a fast and scalable system for fraud
detection in online auction networks. In WWW, pages
201–210, 2007.

[25] P. Resnick, R. Zeckhauser, J. Swanson, and

K. Lockwood. The value of reputation on ebay: A
controlled experiment. Experimental Economics,
9(2):79–101, 2006.

[26] A. Roth and A. Ockenfels. Last minute bidding and
the rules for ending second price auctions: evidence
from ebay and amazon auctions on the internet.
American Economic Review, 92(4):1093–1103, 2002.

[27] G. Shaﬀer. Slotting allowances and resale price

maintenance: a comparison of facilitating practices.
The RAND Journal of Economics, pages 120–135,
1991.

[28] Z. Shen and N. Sundaresan. ebay: an e-commerce

marketplace as a complex network. WSDM ’11, pages
655–664, New York, NY, USA, 2011.

[29] A. Shtok, G. Dror, Y. Maarek, and I. Szpektor.

Learning from the past: answering new questions with
past answers. WWW ’12, pages 759–768.

[30] P. Shuchman. Proﬁt on default: An archival study of

automobile repossession and resale. Stan. L. Rev.,
22:20, 1969.

[31] R. Vernica, M. J. Carey, and C. Li. Eﬃcient parallel

set-similarity joins using mapreduce. SIGMOD ’10,
pages 495–506, New York, NY, USA, 2010.

[32] G. Wang, Y. Zhao, X. Shi, and P. S. Yu. Magnet

community identiﬁcation on social networks. KDD ’12,
pages 588–596.

[33] Y. Zhao, C. C. Aggarwal, and P. S. Yu. On graph

stream clustering with side information. In SDM, 2013.

[34] Y. Zhao, X. Kong, and P. S. Yu. Positive and

unlabeled learning for graph classiﬁcation. In ICDM,
pages 962–971, 2011.

1543