Message from the Chair of IW3C2 

My thoughts and wishes bend again towards France…  
On  behalf  of  the  International  World  Wide  Web  Conference  Committee 
(IW3C2), the steering committee for this conference series, I welcome you 
to the 21st conference of our series. As you may already know, the World 
Wide  Web  was  first  conceived  nearby,  in  1989  by  Tim  Berners-Lee  at 
CERN in Geneva, Switzerland. The first conference of the series, WWW1, 
was held at CERN in 1994 and organized by Robert Cailliau. The IW3C2 
was founded by Joseph Hardin and Robert Cailliau later in 1994 and has 
been responsible for the conference series ever since. I have personally been 
lucky  enough  to  be  part  of  this  community  since  WWW2,  when  I  co-
authored  a  poster.  After  1994  and  1995  (when  two  conferences  were  held  each  year),  WWW  became  an 
annual event held in late April or early May.  

The location of the conference generally rotates among the Americas, Europe, and Asia/Pacific. In 2001 we 
changed the conference designator from a number (1 through 10) to the year it is held; i.e., WWW’11 became 
known  as  WWW  2002.  You  may  browse  our  website  http://www.iw3c2.org/  for  information  on  past  and 
future conferences. WWW 2016 is now open for bids, preferably from a host in the Americas. We encourage 
you to point interested parties to the “Host a Conference” section of the IW3C2’s web site.  

The International WWW Conference series provides the world with a premier forum about the development 
of the Web, the standardization of its associated technologies, and the Web’s impact on society and culture. 
These  conferences  bring  together  researchers,  developers,  users,  and  vendors  –  indeed  all  of  you  who  are 
passionate about the Web and what it has to offer, now and in the future. Part of what is exciting about this 
series  is  the  cross  boundary  and  eclectic  nature  of  the  topics  covered,  and  the  opportunity  it  provides  for 
exploration of new directions, both tech-nological and social.  

We thank Université de Lyon for co-organizing WWW 2012. We appreciate the cooperation of ACM which 
makes our conference the best in the Web area. Many thanks to all our WWW 2012 sponsors, who make this 
event possible.  

We are excited about the opportunity to bring the conference series web community to France, and to Lyon, to 
share the culture, history, food, and technology of this beautiful city with all of you. We thank the general 
chairs Alaine  Mille, Fabien Gandon, and Jacques Misselis, organization committee  co-chairs Luc Mariaux 
and Laurent Flory, and project manager Maud Charaf for all their hard work. Let us all take this opportunity to 
learn new things in technology, in culture, and in business, from each other! 

 

Mary Ellen Zurko  
IBM Software Group 

 

 

 

 

