Towards Environment Generated Media:

Object-participation-type Weblog in Home Sensor Network

Takuya Maekawa

NTT Communication Science

Laboratories

maekawa@cslab.

kecl.ntt.co.jp

Yutaka Yanagisawa

NTT Communication Science

Takeshi Okadome

NTT Communication Science

yutaka@cslab.kecl.ntt.co.jp

houmi@idea.brl.ntt.co.jp

Laboratories

Laboratories

ABSTRACT
The environment generated media (EGM) are deﬁned here
as being generated from a massive amount of and/or in-
comprehensible environmental data by compressing them
into averages or representative values and/or by converting
them into such user-friendly media as text, ﬁgures, charts,
and animations. As an application of EGM, an object-
participation-type weblog is introduced, where anthropo-
morphic indoor objects with sensor nodes post weblog en-
tries and comments about what happened to them in a sen-
sor networked environment.

Categories and Subject Descriptors: H.4.m [Informa-
tion Systems]: INFORMATION SYSTEMS APPLICATIONS
Miscellaneous

General Terms: Design

Keywords: Sensor network, Weblog

1.

INTRODUCTION

The advances in sensor network systems that continuously
produce a massive amount of data from environments cause
a data ﬂood that conceals useful pieces of information thus
preventing us from noticing them. The use of sensor data
from the environment requires us to cope with this data
ﬂood. It also requires to “cook” raw data generated from
sensors attached to the environment because we cannot com-
prehend the environmental situation or the events in the en-
vironment solely from the raw data. This paper discusses a
way of cooking raw sensor data and providing it eﬀectively to
users. We can divide users who enjoy the beneﬁts of sensor
networks into two types. One type have expert knowledge
and deal with data obtained from factory and outdoor sen-
sor networks. The other type have little expert knowledge
and use information for daily life produced from a home sen-
sor network. We particularly need to provide cooked data
that can be understood by the latter type of user.

Massive amounts of data ﬂood the WWW. We have two
general ways to retrieve content from the WWW: active
methods such as querying web search engines and semi-
passive methods such as automatically receiving RSS feeds
from favorite web sites. With the semi-passive approach, a
user who has no clear query can receive a list of information
that relates to the user and choose interesting items from
the list. In the sensor network world, TinyDB [1] and [2]

Copyright is held by the author/owner(s).
WWW 2007, May 8–12, 2007, Banff, Alberta, Canada.
ACM 978-1-59593-654-7/07/0005.

achieve active sensor data browsing. By using the TinyDB,
a user can query a sensor network in an SQL-like language.
[2] also presents an active browsing system that permits us
to search events in the real world. The system can inform us
of what has happened to indoor objects with sensor nodes
for a natural language word set as a query. For example,
when a user asks ‘when drop vase,’ the system replies with
the time that the vase was dropped by analyzing sensor data
obtained from a sensor node attached to the vase. A user
who has no clear query, however, cannot enjoy the beneﬁts
of a system that collects data in sensor network.

This paper presents a semi-passive sensor data browsing
method that is analogous with web content browsing via
RSS. To generate content for provision to users, the method
extracts useful information from sensor data, compresses the
data by calculating their representative values, and then
converts them into user-friendly media such as text and
graphics. Using the method, this paper introduces new me-
dia that is automatically converted from massive amounts
of environmental data in a user-friendly format and which is
called Environment Generated Media (EGM). We also im-
plement an object-participation-type weblog as an applica-
tion example of EGM. In the application, sensor nodes are
attached to various indoor objects including chairs and doors
to detect their states and what happened to them. We aim
to generate user-friendly and enjoyable media by construct-
ing a technology that permits anthropomorphic objects to
post weblog entries about what happened to them. We se-
lect the weblog style that allows semi-passive content brows-
ing because users can then choose an interesting entry from
an entry list in the RSS feeds produced from the weblog.

2. ENVIRONMENT GENERATED MEDIA

Environment generated media are automatically converted,
in a user-friendly format, from raw environmental data that
are huge and/or diﬃcult to understand. A typical example
of EGM is weather information obtained from meteorologic
sensors in many countries and supplied on an electronic bul-
letin board. Although the study presented here uses a sen-
sor network to obtain environmental data, a digest of long
movies from security camera footage set up in non sensor
network environments is also a kind of EGM.

That is, EGM is deﬁned as user-friendly media gener-
ated from massive amounts of and/or incomprehensible data
by compressing them into averages or representative values
and/or by converting them into text, ﬁgures, charts, and
animations. (By converting environmental data into text,
ﬁgures, etc., the data are sometimes compressed.) Con-

WWW 2007 / Poster PaperTopic: Services12674.5 m

4.5 m

m
5

 

.

4

m
8

 

.

1

(a)

(b)

Figure 1: (a) Sensor node, (b) sensing room.

verting environmental data into ﬁgures, charts, and anima-
tions facilitates knowledge discovery. The text representa-
tion (words, phrases, or sentences in a natural language) of
knowledge discovered by a computer also permits us to use
it eﬀectively. EGM, implicitly or explicitly, specify such a
data source as the location of a sensor producing the data
or the type of a physical object if a sensor is attached to
the object. Generating EGM enables end-users to access
environmental data easily.

In the future when indoor environmental data will be con-
tinuously generated, the semi-passive browsing of EGM (or
the combined media of a lifelog and EGM) will become a
popular way for end-users to browse environmental data.

3. APPLICATION

First, we describe an implementation environment of the
weblog application. In the environment, we attached sensor
nodes equipped with an accelerometer, a thermometer, and
an illuminometer to various objects including chairs, doors,
and cups in a sensor networked room. Fig. 1(a) shows the
sensor node used in the application. The sensor node collects
and sends sensor data to a DB server every 60 milliseconds
via wireless communication.

We implemented a sensor network system in an oﬃce as
illustrated in Fig. 1(b). To enable people to continue work-
ing, we included desks, chairs, and a table and installed
many kinds of objects such as PCs. We installed four video
cameras on the ceiling to record the room. We attached sen-
sor nodes to various items of furniture such as doors, chairs,
tables, cups, an alarm clock, books, locker doors, a drawer,
and resealable pouches of tea leaves. The personiﬁed in-
door objects post weblog entries and comments about what
happened to them. They post (1) periodically or (2) when
events occur. We can classify the events into three types:
(2-a) weblog posting by users, (2-b) weblog posting by other
objects, and (2-c) occurrence of speciﬁc events aﬀecting the
objects themselves.

We prepared a total of 34 kinds of services (postings).

Some representative examples are:
Door
- If the times when a door is used is diﬀerent from usual,
the door issues a caution. (2-c) ...
Chair
- When a user posts an entry about his/her tiredness, a chair
posts the total amount of time during which the user sat on
it as a comment to the entry. (2-a)
Cup
- If a cup is dropped, the cup asks with concern whether it
has broken or not. (2-a) ...
Locker and drawer
- A locker and a drawer report what objects are in them and
post the object lists every week. (1) ...

(a)

(b)

Figure 2: Weblog application.

Resealable pouch of tea leaves
- When a user posts an entry about the loss of a pouch, the
pouch reports its location and posts it. (2-b) ...

Fig. 2(a) shows a weblog entry, which denotes that a
cup was dropped. It includes an animation GIF that was
recorded when the cup was dropped. We detect the in-
cident by ﬁnding an acceleration data segment where the
values of the three axes are approximately zero. Fig. 2(b)
shows a weblog entry posted by a user that denotes the loss
of a tea pouch and a comment posted by the pouch. The
comment includes an estimated location of the pouch and
an animation GIF, which was recorded when the pouch last
moved before the entry was posted. We infer that objects are
in lockers and drawers by using illuminance co-occurrence.
When a locker is opened, the illuminance around the objects
in the locker increases.

4. CONCLUSION

This paper deﬁned EGM, which are generated by conver-
sion from a massive amount of environmental data. It also
presented an object-participation-type weblog as an appli-
cation example of EGM. As part of our future work, we plan
to add various functions that will enable users to create in-
teresting content by collaborating with objects.

5. REFERENCES
[1] S. Madden, M. J. Franklin, J. M. Hellerstein, and W. Hong,

“TinyDB: An acquisitional query processing system for sensor
networks,” ACM TODS, 30(1), pp.122–173, 2005.

[2] T. Okadome, T. Hattori, K. Hiramatsu and Y. Yanagisawa, “A

real-world event search system in sensor network environments,”
Proc. Int’l Conf. on Mobile Data Management 2006, 2006.

WWW 2007 / Poster PaperTopic: Services1268