Crawling English-Japanese Person-Name Transliterations

from the Web

Satoshi Sato

Graduate School of Engineering

Nagoya University

Furo-cho, Chikusa-ku

Nagoya, Japan

ssato@nuee.nagoya-u.ac.jp

ABSTRACT
Automatic compilation of lexicon is a dream of lexicon com-
pilers as well as lexicon users. This paper proposes a system
that crawls English-Japanese person-name transliterations
from the Web, which works a back-end collector for auto-
matic compilation of bilingual person-name lexicon. Our
crawler collected 561K transliterations in ﬁve months. From
them, an English-Japanese person-name lexicon with 406K
entries has been compiled by an automatic post processing.
This lexicon is much larger than other similar resources in-
cluding English-Japanese lexicon of HeiNER obtained from
Wikipedia.

Categories and Subject Descriptors
I.2.7 [Artiﬁcial Intelligence]: Natural Language Process-
ing; H.3.3 [Information Storage and Retrieval]: Infor-
mation Search and Retrieval

General Terms
Algorithms, Design, Experimentation.

Keywords
Mining transliteration pairs, automatic lexicon compilation,
person name.

1.

INTRODUCTION

Frequent update and enhancement of lexicon is always
welcomed by lexicon users. However, lexicons are rarely up-
dated because it requires a lot of human labor. A solution
is replacement of human labor with a computer program.
Automatic compilation of lexicon is a dream of lexicon com-
pilers as well as lexicon users.

In this paper, we report an attempt of automatic compi-
lation of a bilingual lexicon from the Web. We have selected
English-Japanese (Latin-Katakana) person-name lexicon as
a target of automatic compilation because of the following
reasons.

1. Between languages that use diﬀerent alphabets, per-
son name translation is a serious problem for human
translators.
In English-Japanese translation, person

Copyright is held by the author/owner(s).
WWW 2009, April 20–24, 2009, Madrid, Spain.
ACM 978-1-60558-487-4/09/04.

names written in Latin script are transliterated into
one in Katakana script according to their pronuncia-
tions. English-Japanese transliteration of person name
is diﬃcult because of several reasons, such as limited
coverage of existing bilingual lexicons, non-English (e.g.,
French and German) person names appeared in En-
glish texts, and spelling variants in Katakana script.

2. There is a possibility that we can compile a large English-

Japanese person-name lexicon from the Web, because
a lot of transliteration instances of person names exist
on the Web. Actually, human translators use the Web
as a virtual low-quality bilingual lexicon.

3. New person names are produced; new person-name
transliterations are produced in every day. Human
translators hope frequent update of bilingual person-
name lexicon.

This paper proposes a system that crawls English-Japanese
person-name transliterations from the Web, which works
as a back-end collector for automatic lexicon compilation.
From collected transliterations, a bilingual person-name lex-
icon is produced by an automatic post processing. This at-
tempt of automatic lexicon compilation can be viewed as a
conversion from a virtual low-quality bilingual lexicon (i.e.,
the Web) to a real high-quality bilingual lexicon.

2. SYSTEM

Figure 1 shows an overview of the system, Tsumugi Crawler.

The system consists of four components: (1) person-name
pool, which keeps monolingual (English or Japanese) person
names to be searched. (2) Tsumugi Finder, which searches
transliterations (or back-transliterations) of a monolingual
(3) PN-ﬁlter, a person-name ﬁlter, which
person name.
(4) transliteration
selects person-names from candidates.
database, which keeps collected transliteration pairs.

The central component of the system is the Tsumugi Finder.

First, the Finder picks a monolingual person name from the
person-name pool, and sends it to Yahoo Japan!’s search en-
gine and obtains the search results (100 snippets in Japanese).
Because Japanese texts frequently include partially bilingual
texts, as Nagata et al.[2] reported, it is highly expected that
the obtained snippets include (back-)transliterations of the
person name of the search query.

From the obtained snippets, S-ﬁlter extracts strings that
satisfy a predeﬁned style requirement of person name. We
have deﬁned a person name as a term that consists of a ﬁrst

1151WWW 2009 MADRID!Poster Sessions: Thursday, April 23, 2009

person-name pool

?

monolingual person name

?

Yahoo Japan!’s search engine

?

search result (100 snippets)

?
S-ﬁlter
?
T-ﬁlter
?
R-ﬁlter
?

?

PN-ﬁlter

?

monolingual
person names

?

Tsumugi
Finder

(back-)transliterations

-

?

transliterations database

Figure 1: Overview of Tsumugi Crawler

name and a last name, and optionally a middle name. The
style requirement is implemented by two regular expressions:
one for English, the other for Japanese.

T-ﬁlter checks transliteration correspondence between the
person name (input) and every candidate produced by S-
ﬁlter. T-ﬁlter uses transliteration score between an English
term and a Japanese term [3], which is an estimated pro-
nunciation similarity of two terms. T-ﬁlter removes a hope-
less candidates whose score is less than the predetermined
threshold.

R-ﬁlter sorts remaining candidates based on their frequen-
cies in the snippets. It always passes the ﬁrst-ranked can-
didates; it also passes a few hopeful candidates as spelling
variants of the ﬁrst-ranked candidate. Finally, the obtained
transliteration pairs are stored into the transliteration database.

The snippets obtained in the above process are also used
as a source from which the system collects new monolingual
person names. Monolingual person names are obtained by
applying PN-ﬁlter [1] to the candidates produced by S-ﬁlter
and they are stored into the person-name pool.

3. COMPILED LEXICON

Tsumugi Crawler collected 561K transliterations in ﬁve
months run. The ﬁnal bilingual lexicon was produced by
the following post processing.

1. Applying the newest version of S-ﬁlter and T-ﬁlter to

the collected transliterations. (561K → 558K)

2. Assign a forward rank and a backward rank to each
transliteration. The forward rank of a transliteration
pair ti = (cid:3)en, jai(cid:4) is a rank among the competitive
ti; the rank is determined by the estimated fre-
set

[

i

quency calculated from the hit counts of “en and jai”.
When ti is in the ﬁrst rank, jai is the best (frequently
used) transliteration of en. A backward rank is calcu-
lated by the same way but reverse direction.

3. Select transliterations in the following types and ﬁlter

out other transliterations. (558K → 454K)

Type-1 (standard transliteration) transliteration
that has the ﬁrst forward rank and the ﬁrst back-
ward rank.

Type-2 (transliteration variant) transliteration that

has the ﬁrst forward rank or the ﬁrst backward
rank (except type-1).

4. Filter out every transliteration whose estimated fre-

quency is 0. (454K → 441K)

5. Apply the newest version of PN-ﬁlter to the remaining

transliterations. (441K → 406K)

The size of the produced lexicon is 406,416 (type-1 entries
= 286,047, type-2 entries = 120,369; English spellings =
316,259, Japanese spellings = 379,504).

Typical size of existing book-style English-Japanese person-

name dictionary is around 20,000. HeiNER[4] provides bilin-
gual lexicon of named entities, which was compiled from
inter-language links of Wikipedia. The size of English-Japanese
lexicon of HeiNER is 125,053, which includes other types
of name entities such as place, product, and company. The
size of the largest database of English-Japanese person-name
that we know is 175,000, which is sold by a database com-
pany. Our lexicon is much larger than these existing re-
sources.

Because of the large size, evaluation of our lexicon is diﬃ-
cult and time-consuming. We have conducted a preliminary
evaluation of precision, where 420 type-1 entries have been
examined by a human evaluator. We have obtained the re-
sult that 390 (93%) entries are correct and 30 (7%) entries
are incorrect (they are correct transliteration pairs of other
types of named entities).

Evaluation of recall of our lexicon is much diﬃcult because
we do not know the total size of English-Japanese person-
name transliterations on the Web. We have conducted a
rough estimation by using a set of known transliterations ex-
tracted from four English books and their Japanese transla-
tions. Among 658 known transliterations that can be found
by Yahoo Japan!’s search engine, 431 (65.5%) translitera-
tions have been already recorded in our lexicon.

4. ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

This research has been supported by the Kayamori Foun-

dation of Informational Science Advancement.

5. REFERENCES
[1] S. Kaide and S. Sato. A person-name classiﬁer by using

probability diﬀerence (in Japanese). In Proc. of
NLP-09, 2009.

[2] M. Nagata, T. Saito, and K. Suzuki. Using the Web as

a bilingual dictionary. In Proc. of the workshop on
Data-driven methods in machine translation, pages 1–8,
2001.

[3] Y. Sakakibara and S. Sato. Automatic compilation of a
bilingual person-name lexicon (in Japanese). In Proc. of
NLP-07, pages 879–882, 2007.

[4] W. Wentland, J. Knopp, C. Silberer, and M. Hartung.

Building a multilingual lexical resource for named
entity disambiguation, translation and transliteration.
In Proc. of LREC-08, 2008.

1152WWW 2009 MADRID!Poster Sessions: Thursday, April 23, 2009