Combining Individual Tutoring with Automatic Course

Sequencing in WBT Systems

Denis Helic
IICM, TU Graz
Inffeldgasse 16c
8010 Graz, Austria
dhelic@iicm.edu

Hermann Maurer

IICM, TU Graz
Inffeldgasse 16c
8010 Graz, Austria

hmaurer@iicm.edu

Nick Scerbakov

IICM, TU Graz
Inffeldgasse 16c
8010 Graz, Austria

nsherbak@iicm.edu

ABSTRACT
Usually, the success of systems using automatic course se-
quencing depends strongly on careful authoring and foresee-
ing of all curriculum alternatives before any learning session
even starts. We believe that tutors, starting from a sim-
ple generic curriculum, and assuming that they have the
proper tools, can much easier create curriculum alternatives
as immediate response to the current learning situation. In
this paper we present a tool that provides a ﬂexible en-
vironment for tutors allowing them to customize, and de-
velop the curriculum on-the-ﬂy. However, since individual
tutoring is quite expensive we shortly discuss possibilities
for enabling automatic adjustment of course curriculum to
learners’ needs by combining on-the-ﬂy curriculum alterna-
tives created by tutors with well-known automatic course
sequencing techniques.

Categories and Subject Descriptors
H.5.4 [Information Interfaces and Presentation]: Hy-
pertext/Hypermedia—Navigation; K.3.1 [Computer and
Education]: Computer Uses in education

General Terms
Experimentation, Human Factors

Keywords
WBT, tutoring, course curriculum, course sequencing

1.

INTRODUCTION

The basic learning scenario in Web-based training (WBT)
systems involves three user roles: authors, tutors and learn-
ers. Authors, who are usually experts in a particular subject
matter, i.e. they possess a good knowledge of that domain,
prepare a number of courses and publish them on the sys-
tem. Afterward, learners access the published courses to
acquire the desired new knowledge. Tutors usually only su-
pervise learners during their learning sessions, and answer
their questions about the presented learning material.

The learning curriculum in such a scenario is determined
by the navigational structure of a particular course. Usually,
this curriculum is a rather generic curriculum that is created

Copyright is held by the author/owner(s).
WWW2004, May 17–22, 2004, New York, New York, USA.
ACM 1-58113-912-8/04/0005.

by authors for a wide range of learners and does not take
into account the speciﬁc needs of a particular learner [3].

There exist a number of approaches to overcome this draw-
back in WBT systems. Usually, all of these approaches
deal with diﬀerent methods for customizing the course cur-
riculum to learners’ needs. For example, pre-learning tests
might be applied to assess the knowledge level and cognitive
style of a particular learner. At the next step this infor-
mation is used to select the appropriate course curriculum
among a number of alternatives predeﬁned by course au-
thors [5]. Other possibilities for improving curriculum cus-
tomization include adaptive hypermedia system techniques
such as adaptive navigation support [2], or intelligent tutor-
ing systems techniques such as dynamic course sequencing
[3]. These techniques are based on sophisticated learners’
models reﬂecting their knowledge and cognitive style and
a number of sequencing rules that are used to dynamically
infer the appropriate course curriculum.

Although all of these techniques represent powerful cus-
tomization mechanisms we believe that they also have cer-
tain limitations. Basically, these techniques are based on
two important preconditions. The ﬁrst precondition is the
proper assessment of learners that is crucial for creating the
appropriate learner model. The second precondition is the
proper identiﬁcation of relevant curriculum alternatives or
the proper deﬁnition of course sequencing rules. Both of
these preconditions need to be identiﬁed by authors before
any learning session starts. This can be seen as a quite
complex, and one of the most challenging tasks in applying
such techniques. Usually, the success of systems using the
above mentioned techniques depends strongly on careful au-
thoring and foreseeing of all possible learning situations, or
curriculum alternatives [4].

However, we believe that tutors, assuming that they have
the proper tools, can much easier customize the starting
generic curriculum as immediate response to the current
learning situation. Thus, they can tailor the curriculum to
the speciﬁc needs of each particular learner on-the-ﬂy. For
example, tutors may extend the starting curriculum by link-
ing to external Web resources, learning material residing on
their local sites, etc.

In the next section we present a tool called Virtual Class-
room that was implemented as a part of the WBT-Master
system[7]. This tool strongly emphasizes the tutors’ role in
the learning process by providing a ﬂexible environment for
tutors allowing them to customize the curriculum on-the-ﬂy.

4562. VIRTUAL CLASSROOMS

Virtual Classroom consists of two major components: the
library of learning resources and course curriculum. Learn-
ing resources can be of any type. For instance, the courses
available in the system, simple documents, and Web re-
sources can all be a part of the library. On the other hand,
the course curriculum is a description of a particular learning
session. Thus, the curriculum explains what actions should
be performed by learners and in which sequence in order to
achieve a particular learning goal.

Basically, tutors work all the time just with the curricu-
lum and classroom library. Thus, at the beginning of each
learning session tutors create the starting curriculum and
select a number of learning resources for that curriculum.
As the learning session progresses they might need to mod-
ify the curriculum and/or the classroom library to adjust it
to the current learning situation.

Technically, this approach follows closely the SCORM sim-
ple sequencing model [1]. Thus, the classroom library pro-
vides learning content, which is then sequenced by means
of the course curriculum. The principal diﬀerence of our
approach compared with other similar approaches is in the
way how the course curriculum is developed, namely by tu-
tors as a response to current needs, questions, or requests of
their learners.

The Virtual Classroom tool was developed within the scope
of the CORONET project. The corporate application part-
ners deployed the tool for the on-the-work training of the
work force. They also evaluated the tool considering the
learning eﬀectiveness, cost/beneﬁt ratio, usability, etc. The
evaluation results were quite positive [8].

3. EXTENDING VIRTUAL CLASSROOMS
The positive cost/beneﬁt ratio of the Virtual Classroom
tool is easily understandable. One of the evaluation part-
ners was a software training and consulting company oﬀering
face-to-face training in the classical classroom settings. By
using the Virtual Classroom tool they were able to replace
some of their face-to-face sessions with online sessions, and
save for instance travel expenses in this way.

However, individual tutoring is usually quite expensive
and many organizations are not able to cope with the new
costs resulting from such an approach. For example, the
costs of individual tutoring at colleges or universities are
extremely high, and obviously this approach can not be ap-
plied in such organizations.

Therefore, we suggest combining the above described indi-
vidual tutoring approach with automatic course sequencing
techniques. We hope that with such a combination we can
achieve better results in automatic adjustment of course cur-
riculum to the current learners’ needs. This can be achieved
because, in our approach, curriculum customization is not
based on curriculum alternatives, or sequencing rules made
by authors before any learning session started. Rather, the
customization process is based on decisions made by tutors
during the previous learning sessions.

To implement this functionality a similar mechanism to
that used in active documents can be applied [6]. Active
documents can be seen as a viable alternative to pre-made
question/answer (Q/A) documents. In the case of pre-made
Q/A documents (e.g. system help documents) authors need
to foresee all possible questions that can be made by users of

a particular system and provide answers to those questions.
On the other hand, in the case of active documents questions
are answered on-the-ﬂy by an especially designated user. Of
course, special mechanisms are implemented allowing that
after some of the questions are answered manually all other
questions might be answered automatically [6]. These mech-
anisms include text classiﬁcation algorithms to determine
the similarity between questions, semantic analysis of text,
collaborative ﬁltering algorithms to make use of similarities
in user proﬁles, etc.

Similar approach can be taken in curriculum customiza-
tion. Thus, at the beginning the system is “trained” how
to react in certain situations. For example, curriculum al-
ternatives made by tutors are recorded together with the
state of the user proﬁle for which these alternatives were
made. Collaborative ﬁltering algorithms for analyzing learn-
ers’ proﬁles may be applied to select an appropriate alter-
native among all alternatives recorded by tutors. Thus, for
a particular learner the system can select exactly that al-
ternative, which was created by the tutor for learners with
“similar” learner proﬁle. Further, questions asked by learn-
ers are recorded and classiﬁed using text classiﬁcation algo-
rithms. Now, whenever new learners ask a question, that
question can be checked for “similarity” with the previous
questions. The curriculum alternative made by the tutor as
a response to one of the “similar” questions can be selected
as the system response.

To insure interoperability with other tools and systems we
plan to base this extended Virtual Classroom tool on open
standards, such as SCORM.

4. ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

The future work on the Virtual Classroom tool will be
funded by the European Commission within the project
called Network of Excellence on Digital Libraries (DELOS).

5. REFERENCES
[1] ADL. Scorm - sequencing and navigation, version 1.3,

2004.

[2] P. Brusilovsky. Adaptive navigation support in

educational hypermedia: The role of student knowledge
level and the case for meta-adaptation. British Journal
of Educational Technology, 34(4):487–497, 2003.

[3] P. Brusilovsky and J. Vassileva. Course sequencing

techniques for large-scale web-based education.
International Journal of Continuing Engineering
Education and Lifelong Learning, 13(1-2), 2003.

[4] P. DeBra. Pros and cons of adaptive hypermedia in

web-based education. Journal on CyberPsychology and
Behavior, 3(1):71–77, 2003.

[5] J. Hasebrook. Learning in the learning organization.

Journal for Universal Computer Science, 7(6):472–487,
2001.

[6] E. Heinrich and H. Maurer. Active documents:

Concept, implementation and applications. Journal for
Universal Computer Science, 6(12):1197–1202, 2000.

[7] D. Helic, H. Maurer, J. Lennon, and N. Scerbakov.
Aspects of a modern wbt system. In Proceedings of
SSGRR 2001, L’Aquila, Italy, 2001. SSGRR.

[8] S. Trapp. Coronet project - ﬁnal report. Technical

Report IST-1999-11634, Fraunhofer IESE, 2002.

457