Active E-Course for Constructivist Learning1 

Hai Zhuge 

China Knowledge Grid Research Group 

(http://kg.ict.ac.cn)  

Key Lab of Intelligent Information Processing 

Institute of Computing Technology 

Chinese Academy of Sciences,100080, Beijing, China 

zhuge@ict.ac.cn

ABSTRACT 
An  active  e-course  is  a  self-representable  and  self-organizable 
document  mechanism  with  a  flexible  structure.  The  kernel  of  the 
active  e-course  is  to  organize  learning  materials  into  a  "concept 
space" rather than a "page space". Besides highly interactive service, 
it  supports  adaptive  learning  by  dynamically  selecting,  organizing 
and presenting the learning materials for different students. During 
the  learning  progress,  it  also  provides  assessments  on  students’ 
learning  performances  and  gives  suggestions  to  guide  them  in 
further  learning.  We  have  implemented  an  authoring  tool  and  a 
course prototype to support the constructivist learning. 

Categories & Subject Descriptors: K.3.2 [Computers 
and  Education]:  Computer  and  Information  Science  Education  – 
computer science education, curriculum. 
General Terms: Management, Design, Human Factors. 
Keywords:  Active  e-course,  constructivist  learning,  course 
ontology, semantic link network. 
1.  INTRODUCTION 
The literature in education suggests that students who are actively 
engaged  in  the  learning  process  will  be  more  likely  to  achieve 
success.  Constructivist  learning  is  a  student-centered  educational 
approach  to  effectively  motivate  the  students  by  enabling  a  more 
active,  explorative  and  interactive  learning  process.  So,  how  to 
effectively  support  constructivist  learning  becomes  an  important 
issue  with  respect  to  e-learning.  A  number  of  adaptive  and 
intelligent systems have been implemented to support constructivist 
learning [1, 2]. 
By  incorporating  the  intelligent  agent  and  adaptive  hypermedia 
technologies, this paper proposes an active e-course that focuses on 
dynamic  organization  of  learning  materials  with  various  semantic 
links  to  better  support  student-centered,  highly  interactive  and 
adaptive learning approach.  

2.  GENERAL ARCHITECTURE 
The general architecture for the constructivist learning is illustrated 
in  Figure  1.  The  teaching  agent  serves  as  an  intelligent  tutor  by 
interacting  with  students  (such  as  course  planning,  evaluation  of 
learning performance, and profile updating). The delivering agent is 
responsible  for  composing  and  presenting  tailored  courses  for 
different  students.  Each  student  is  equipped  with  a  profile  to 
 

Copyright is held by the author/owner(s). 
WWW 2004, May 17-22, 2004, New York, NY USA. 
ACM 1-58113-912-8/04/0005. 
 

Yanyan Li 

China Knowledge Grid Research Group 

(http://www.knowledgegrid.net)  

Key Lab of Intelligent Information Processing 

Institute of Computing Technology 

Chinese Academy of Sciences,100080, Beijing, China 

    yyli75@yeah.net 

 

describe  his  personal  information  and  learning  history.  The 
authoring  tool  provides  support  for  course  structural  modeling. 
Knowledge  Grid  is  an  Internet-based  application  platform  for 
sharing and managing the distributed heterogeneous resources in a 
uniform way [3, 5, 6], which herein comprises two resource spaces: 
Knowledge Space and Information Space.  

Students

E xperts and T eachers

U ser Interface

 

T eaching A gent

 Student
P rofiels

      D elivering
 

      A gent

K now ledge G rid

 

 

K nowle dge Spa ce

 

Info rm a tion Spa ce

G ruD exer

W eb

A uthoring Tool

E xecution E ngine

Index E ngine

 

 

 

 

 

 

 R esou ce
metad ata

C ourse
ontology

 

Instructional

strategies

K nowled ge Spac e

Figure 1. The general architecture for constructivist learning. 

3.  STRUCTURAL MODELING FOR 
ACTIVE E-COURSE 
Course  ontology  defines  course  knowledge  and  structure  within  a 
specific domain, which includes course concepts and roles. A course 
concept represents a composite or atomic knowledge object with a 
unique object identifier, and a structure that includes attribute-value 
pairs and link anchors. The roles represent the binary relationships 
among  knowledge  objects,  and  the  relationship  can  be  one  of  the 
following  types:  Subtype,  Sequential,  Cause-effect,  Implication, 
Similar-to,  Reference,  Part-of,  Corequisite,  Supplement,  Contrast, 
and  Inhibitor.  The  reasoning  rule  can  be  used  for  chaining  the 
semantic relationships and obtaining the  reasoning  result  from  the 
chaining.  We 
(SLN, 
http://www2003.org/cdrom/papers/poster/p172/p172-zhuge/p172-
zhuge.htm) to represent the course ontology [4]. Course ontology is 
modeled as a nested SLN. 
The metadata of learning materials are semi-automatically specified 
based  on  the  course  ontology  that  provides  a  shared  meaning  of 
used  vocabulary.  The  metadata  falls  into  three  broad  categories: 
structure  (the  structural  information),  content  (what  is  about)  and 
context (when to present).  

semantic 

use 

link 

network 

the 

                                                                 
1 This work was supported by the National Science Foundation 

of China (NSFC). 

2464.  BUILDING AN ACTIVE E-COURSE 
4.1  Semantic Linking 
By  referring  to  the  students’  different  demands  and  activities, 
semantic links are automatically added into documents, as shown in 
Figure  2.  In  this  way,  an  active  e-course  dynamically  adapts  to 
different students with an open and flexible structure.  

 

D o c u m e n t

D o c u m e n t   p a r s i n g

S e m a n t i c   l i n k   g e n e r a t i n g

l i n k -

d i s c o v e r i n g

l i n k -

p r u n i n g

D o c u m e n t   r e f r e s h i n g

E x p a n d e d
d o c u m e n t

 
c

 

t 1

t 3

t 2

 

 

Where di denotes the difficulty level of the ith question, agj denotes 
the  association  weight  between  the  knowledge  object  Kg  and  the 
question  Qj.    T  and  F  are  the  set  of  questions  that  are  correctly 
answered and not correctly answered by a student, and the number 
of the questions in T (F) is denoted as n (m). The following formula 
is  used  to  compute  the  error  ratio  (ER)  of  comprehending  a 
knowledge object. 
ER

......(

)3

=

(

K

)

 

N
+

g
N

g

g

P

g

 

 

M e t a d a t a

C o u r s e

O n t o l o g y

 

 

 

I n f o r m a t i o n

r e s o u r c e s

 

is  determined  based  on 

According  to  the  pre-specified  threshold,  the  learning  level  on  a 
knowledge  object 
the  error  ratio. 
Accordingly,  the  evaluations  and  suggestions  are  presented  to 
students  for  their  reference.  Figure  4  shows  an  interface  for 
displaying the testing results and evaluations. The student’s answers 
are clearly itemized while relevant knowledge objects are attached to 
the questions. 

Figure 2. Framework for constructing semantic links. 

4.2  Course Generation 
The  teaching  agent  firstly  finds  an  optimal  learning  path  with 
required  knowledge  objects  for  different  students  by  following  a 
two-step  process:  selecting  knowledge  objects  and  structuring 
knowledge objects. According to  the  student  profiles,  the  required 
knowledge  objects  are  selected.  By  using  the  reasoning  rules,  the 
knowledge  objects  are  then  sequenced  and  structured  in  a 
reasonable pattern (such as linear, flat, tree, or hybrid pattern). 
Following  that,  the  delivering  agent  generates  the  course  by 
substantiating  each  knowledge  object  with  one  or  more  learning 
resources. An active e-course is presented with adaptive content and 
semantic  links  to  the  students.  Figure  3  shows  the  interface  for 
displaying the demo course.  

Semantic link 

Evaluate the 

material 

 

Figure 3. Interface for displaying course content. 

5.  LEARNING EVALUATION 
Students’  learning  effects  are  evaluated  mainly  based  on  the  test 
result. Each question may be related to multiple knowledge objects 
with different association degrees. Obviously, correctly answering a 
more  difficult  question  shows  higher  comprehension  ability  than 
correctly answering an easier question. Likewise, failing to answer a 
more difficult question contributes less to the comprehension ability 
than that of failing to answer an easier question. Thus, we use the 
following  formulas  to  compute  the  positive  influence  (Pg)  and 
negative influence (Ng) on the comprehension of knowledge object 
Kg, respectively.  
∗

∑
1((

−

∗

d

j

)

a
gk

)

a

gj

)

∑
d
(
∈
TQ

j

j

n

=

P
g

)1...(

       

N
g

=

∈
FQ
k

)2...(

 

m

 

Figure 4. Interface for showing the test results. 

6.  CONCLUSIONS 
Being  separating  from  the  concept-centered  structural  model,  the 
learning materials can be adaptively organized and reused in a more 
flexible and interoperable manner. In this way, active e-courses with 
tailored  content  and  open  structure  are  presented  to  different 
students.  Furthermore,  students’  learning  effects  are  automatically 
evaluated to provide corresponding suggestions. An authoring tool 
for constructing course ontology and a course prototype have been 
implemented  to  support  the  constructivist  learning  (available  at 
http://kg.ict.ac.cn/KGTutor/KGTutor.htm). 

7.  REFERENCES 
[1]  Bra, P. D., Calvi, L., AHA! An open adaptive hypermedia 

architecture, The New Review of Hypermedia and Multimedia, 
4 (1998), 115-139. 

[2]  Vassileva, J., Dynamic course generation on the WWW, 

Artificial Intelligence in Education, Knowledge and Media in 
Learning Systems, IOS, Amsterdam, (1997), 498-505. 

[3]  Zhuge, H., A Knowledge Grid model and platform for global 
knowledge sharing, Expert Systems with Application, 22(4) 
(2002), 313-320. 

[4]  Zhuge, H., Active e-document framework ADF: model and 

tool, Information and Management, 41(1) (2003), 87-97. 

[5]  Zhuge, H., Knowledge Grid, World Scientific, 2004. 
[6]  Zhuge, H., China’s e-science Knowledge Grid environment, 

IEEE Intelligent Systems, Jan./Feb., 2004 

247