Web Service Derivatives

Thomas Meinl

Management (IISM)

Englerstr. 14

Karlsruhe, Germany

Benjamin Blau

Management (IISM)

Englerstr. 14

Karlsruhe, Germany

Institute of Information Systems and

Institute of Information Systems and

meinl@iism.uni-karlsruhe.de

blau@iism.uni-karlsruhe.de

ABSTRACT
Web service development and usage has shifted from simple
information processing services to high-value business ser-
vices that are crucial to productivity and success. In order
to deal with an increasing risk of unavailability or failure of
mission-critical Web services we argue the need for advanced
reservation of services in the form of derivatives.
The contribution of this paper is twofold: First we provide
an abstract model of a market design that enables the trade
of derivatives for mission-critical Web services. Our model
satisﬁes requirements that result from service characteristics
such as intangibility and the impossibility to inventor ser-
vices in order to meet ﬂuctuating demand. It comprehends
principles from models of incomplete markets such as the
absence of a tradeable underlying and consistent arbitrage-
free derivative pricing.
Furthermore we provide an architecture for a Web service
market that implements our model and describes the strat-
egy space and interaction of market participants in the trad-
ing process of service derivatives. We compare the under-
lying pricing processes to existing derivative models in en-
ergy exchanges, discuss eventual shortcomings, and propose
Wavelets as a preprocessing tool to analyze actual data and
extract long- and short-term seasonalities.

Categories and Subject Descriptors
H.3.5 [Online Information Services]: Web-based ser-
vices; K.1 [The Computer Industry]: Markets; G.1.2
[Approximation]: Wavelets and fractals

General Terms
Economics, Management, Theory

Keywords
Derivatives, Incomplete Markets, Services Mashups, Wavelets,
Web Services

1.

INTRODUCTION

The traditional idea of hard wired value chains is continu-
ously giving way to highly agile service value networks that
enable ﬂexible binding of service components within busi-
ness processes and scenarios. The tremendous increase in
Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Com-
mittee (IW3C2). Distribution of these papers is limited to classroom use,
and personal use by others.
WWW 2009, April 20–24, 2009, Madrid, Spain.
ACM 978-1-60558-487-4/09/04.

Web service oﬀerings and their raising relevance for busi-
ness processes has pushed disciplines like risk management
in the focus of attention. Gartner analysts predict that “the
new focus [...] will be on high-value business applications
that either have to process high data volumes [...] or that
have to process complex proprietary code and business al-
gorithms, such as loan risk assessment”.
Workﬂows incorporate process steps loosely-coupled provi-
sioned by decentralized third-party providers that are not
under the control of the workﬂow owner. In this context,
service level agreements and guarantees for required quality
levels are crucial for business success. Contract management
demands for innovative risk management concepts that ac-
count for special characteristics of electronic services and
issues that may arise in these environments.
To illustrate these critical aspects consider a manager of a
company that distributes ﬂowers over the internet. As pay-
ment processing is not a core competency of the company,
the board decides on the integration of third-party services
into existing business processes in order to decrease costs
of operation and maintenance. The diagram in Figure 1
sketches an excerpt of the service components of an exem-
plary payment process. The PaymentProcessingService facili-
tates service components from Strike Iron 1, Duo Share 2 and
CDYNE 3 to verify the customer’s address and credit card
information. Customer data is stored and managed using
a StorageService and a DataBaseService from third-parties.
Exemplary services from decentralized storage providers are
Amazon S3 4, Digital Bucket 5 and Box.net 6. Services for or-
ganizing and managing customer data are Amazon Simple
DB 7 and Long Jump DaaS 8. However, mentioned services
represent the non-crucial part of the process as there ex-
ist multiple providers that oﬀer service substitutes which
makes them replaceable. The actual execution of the ﬁnan-
cial transaction through the TransactionProcessingService in
contrary is highly critical for the success of the business pro-
cess (mission-critical ). These process steps are mostly char-
acterized by a high degree of specialization, customization
and scarcity and are therefore only oﬀered by few service
providers (cp. Section 2).

1http://strikeiron.com/
2http://duoshare.com/
3http://cdyne.com/
4http://aws.amazon.com/s3/
5http://digitalbucket.net/
6http://box.net/
7http://aws.amazon.com/simpledb/
8http://longjump.com/daas/

WWW 2009 MADRID!Track: Internet Monetization / Session: Web Monetization271PaymentProcessingService

Replaceable Services

Mission-CriƟcal Services

DataVeriﬁcaƟonService

DatabaseService

StorageService

TransacƟonProcessingService

AddressVer

CreditCardVer

LongJumpDaaS

AmazonS3

JETTISTransacƟonProcessing

AmazonSimpleDB

DigitalBucket

NetBillingCreditCardProcessing

Box.net

StrikeIronGlobalAddressLocator

DuoShareAddressQualityIntegrator

CDYNEPostalAddressVeriﬁcaƟon

Figure 1: Payment Processing Service Containing Replaceable and Mission-Critical Service Components

In order to ensure the availability of these services in this
oligarchy, we propose the utilization of Web service deriva-
tives. Already established in many other business areas like
stocks, commodities and energy, they have become a widely
used instrument, both for risk management as well as purely
investment purposes. Risk management does not only pro-
vide a hedge against resource shortage in times of (unex-
pected) high demand but also guarantees the delivery of the
contracted services at a certain price level. The derivatives
themselves are deﬁned on the underlying dynamic price pro-
cess of the respective Web service and include parameters
like the date of maturity, the price function, determining
the price to paid if the derivative is exercised (in case this is
not mandatory), and a certain value assigned to the deriva-
tive, specifying its purchase price.
It is crucial that this
price is determined by following the fundamental principles
of derivative pricing in order to avoid arbitrage opportuni-
ties.
In our paper we analyze the ﬁrst steps of how Web
service derivatives need to be deﬁned in respect to the re-
lated service characteristics and under what conditions they
have to be priced.

We show certain similarities and distinctions of the deriva-
tive pricing process in stock and electricity markets and jus-
tify the need for a diﬀerent approach in modeling the un-
derlying service price process. We ﬁnd that a nonparametric
model ﬁts best to the conditions given in open Web service
markets and adopt the methods of Wavelet Analysis to an
exemplary scenario.

such as goods and products through the identiﬁcation of its
main characteristics and their implications. In general a ser-
vice is some kind of activity or performance. The result of
such an activity is the change of condition of some person
or good. This change of state is based on an agreement of
the economic unit owning the good subject matter and the
one providing the service [16, 21].

Deﬁnition 2.1 (Service) A service is an activity which an
economic unit A (service provider) performs for another eco-
nomic unit B (service consumer) that results in a change of
state or condition of an economic unit C.910

Services expose a set of unique characteristics that have
strong implications from an economic perspective and al-
low a more or less consistent diﬀerentiation from traditional
goods or products. In literature it has been argued that in-
tangibility is the main characteristic to diﬀerentiate goods
from services [33, 41]. Especially in the marketing area, in-
tangibility has been identiﬁed as the most diﬃcult aspect
of services to deal with when it comes to evaluation of ser-
vice value creation as well as quality control and assurance.
Focusing on economic properties and their implications for
the coordination of value creation, intangibility is not the
only fundamental characteristic to diﬀerentiate goods from
services. The following list of service characteristics serves
as a basis to derive requirements for adequate market mech-
anisms to coordinate value generation through services. It
is neither exhaustive nor complete.

2. REQUIREMENTS

In order analyze requirements that must be met to en-
able the trade of services, this section indirectly deﬁnes the
service concept and diﬀerentiates it from adjacent concepts

C 2.1 (Uno-actu) Service production and consumption are
not separable an coincide in time.

9Economic units A, B and C are not necessarily diﬀerent.
10This deﬁnition is based on [17, 21]

WWW 2009 MADRID!Track: Internet Monetization / Session: Web Monetization272In contrary to goods where the production, use and own-
ership can be separated from the economic entity itself. A
service cannot be treated independently from its producer
or consumer. “services involve relationships between pro-
ducers and consumers” [22]. This implies that the process
of production and consumption cannot be separated mean-
ing that there is no producer without a consumer and the
other way around (e.g. a barber can only cut hair if the cus-
tomer is present at the same time which implies that there
is no hair cutting activity possible without the barber or
the customer being present). This principle is also called
uno-actu which states that production coincides with con-
sumption. This characteristic is fundamental to distinguish
services from goods and it causally implicates most of the
following service characteristics.

C 2.2 (Not storable) Services cannot be inventoried or pro-
duced on stock.

The main value generated by the consumption of services
comes from an action or performance. Service are ephemeral
– transitory and perishable – which implies that they cannot
be stored or produced on stock. It is not possible to produce
services in advance in order to meet ﬂuctuating demand. It
is of great importance to distinguish between the actual per-
formance that leads to an immediate change in state and its
eﬀect on reality. The activity itself on the one hand cannot
be produced on stock as it is intangible and perishable. The
person or good that is aﬀected by this activity on the other
hand can mostly be preserved over time [17] (e.g. the actual
deed of cutting hair cannot be produced on stock, whereas
the change of condition – the physical cut hair – can be
inventoried and exists over time).

C 2.3 (Co-production) Services are often co-produced by
their consumers.

According to Deﬁnition 2.1, services are deeds or actions
that change the condition of another economic unit. This
economic unit – often referred to as external factor – is
mostly brought in by the consumer. The consumer proac-
tively inﬂuences the service activity and might therefore in-
ﬂuence its result and quality. The degree of customer partic-
ipation and co-production in the context of diﬀerent service
categories is analyzed in [3]. Depending on the type of ser-
vice (i) customer presence might be required during service
delivery, (ii) customer inputs might be required for the ac-
tual service creation or (iii) customer inputs are completely
mandatory. Co-production is argued to be the main charac-
teristic to diﬀerentiate services from goods [15]. However re-
cent production strategies of traditional goods heavily inte-
grate customers in the production process – often referred to
as mass customization [32] – which shows that co-production
does not appear to be a suitable service characteristic in or-
der to strictly distinguish services from goods.

C 2.4 (Intangible value creation) Value creation through
services is dominated by intangible elements.

Some services include physical elements in the process of
value creation (i.e.
spare parts during a repair process).
However, the most value is created in the form of intangi-
ble, immaterial elements. The consumer of a service experi-
ences the performance or activity which embodies the main
portion of created value [26]. Services create value when ser-
vice consumers beneﬁt from experiencing a service without

a transfer of ownership (e.g. booking a hotel room). Due
to this fact, the assessment of quality and its assurance is a
critical issue in the context of services as an experience or
an intangible result is hard to measure and strongly depends
on the economic unit to which it is provided. A continues
spectrum from tangible-dominant to intangible-dominant to
diﬀerentiate between goods and services in suggested in [38].

C 2.5 (Fuzzy inputs and outputs) Service inputs and out-
puts are fuzzy and tend to vary more widely.

Implied by the previous characteristic, it is hardly possible
to control quality aspects of a service in a way that outcomes
are predictable and constant over time [18]. Services are
produced and consumed coincidentally and the value that is
created during this process varies widely due to the lack of
control instruments and various facets of service experience.
This issue is even more intensiﬁed by another phenomenon
that is speciﬁc to services. The quality of a service might
depend on the ”quality” or eﬀort of the service consumer
(e.g.
in teaching or consulting) [19]. Due to the fact that
the quality or eﬀort of a service consumer is not under the
control of the provider and tends to vary from individual
to individual the ﬁnal outcome of a service activity is fuzzy
and varies more widely.

In summary, the fact that services cannot be inventoried
and that time plays an important role for the value of a
service has strong implications in situations with ﬂuctuating
demand and supply. Possible ways to counteract situations
when demand exceeds capacity are advanced reservation and
dynamic pricing strategies [6].

The dynamic price processes we assume to be given in our
work are subject to deterministic seasonal as well as stochas-
tic inﬂuences. This process is the result of the subjacent
market model which may be e. g. an (double-) auction or
other heuristic or optimized allocation mechanisms. In our
scenario Web service derivatives may also be deﬁned on a
static price process as advance reservation makes also sense
in hedging unpredictable resource shortfalls.

Despite of general service characteristics we also focus
on important diﬀerentiations from a requester’s perspective.
According to [30] we distinguish services based on the con-
text of usage into replaceable and mission-critical services.
A replaceable service is a service typically provided my mul-
tiple providers. Assuming all service expose the same inter-
faces these types of services can easily be replaced without
jeopardizing business functionality. Replaceable service are
typically used in processes or applications that do not suﬀer
from unavailability over short periods of time (e.g. weather
forecast). Mission-critical services on the other hand are
more crucial to business functionality. Such services are
mostly provided by few, highly specialized providers. Due
to the high level of customization and specialization and the
importance of their availability, they can hardly be replaced
or substituted. These types of services are responsible for
the ﬂawless execution and behavior of whole applications or
business processes.

This leads to the need of models for advance reservation
to hedge risk of technical failures and resource shortages,
based on the assumption that derivative holders are treated
preferentially in respect to service requesters acquiring their
needs on the spot market only. Therefore, in contrast to
stock markets, derivatives might also be exercised if their
strike price is above the actual spot market price, in order

WWW 2009 MADRID!Track: Internet Monetization / Session: Web Monetization273to ensure fulﬁlment of the service request. Besides these
beneﬁts for service consumers, service providers also proﬁt
from writing (selling) derivatives on their oﬀered services.
Though they put themselves in a liable position, they are
able to hedge the risks they would be exposed to by solely
oﬀering their services in a spot market. As service demand
can be assumed to be unpredictable (at least to a certain
degree), they face not only the risk of low prices in times
of low demand, but also the opportunity costs of provid-
ing services resources eventually not being used. The sale
of derivatives provide an up-front ﬁxed income equal to the
derivatives value. This compensates the provider for his lia-
bilities and opportunity costs, thus, as the latter are known,
making its risk assessable. Another beneﬁt is the ability to
improve capacity planning, as the demand for derivatives
may also provide an estimator for the expected demand in
the spot market.

The non-storable, non-separable nature of Web services
results in an incomplete market, where the services itself can
be acquired and consumed, but can not be hold for replica-
tion purposes, which is the fundamental principle of com-
plete ﬁnancial markets and arbitrage-free derivative pric-
ing. These circumstances are similar to the ones we en-
counter in electricity markets [36]. Thus, the risk-neutral
valuation principle of derivatives, like the celebrated Black-
Scholes pricing formula [5] or the Black 76 model, cf. [23],
can not be applied to our scenario.

To be able to deﬁne derivatives on an underlying Web
service asset oﬀered by not just a single but rather a range
of multiple providers, we require these services to be clas-
siﬁed in a homogeneous set. Furthermore, we require the
derivatives on these assets to be priced in a consistent way
and independently of individual preferences, in order not to
allow for arbitrage opportunities.

3. RELATED WORK

Today’s economy is currently going through a change from
a product- to a service-centric economy. This trend fos-
ters new cooperation forms in loosely-coupled conﬁgurations
of legally independent ﬁrms. Companies shift from verti-
cal integration to horizontal specialization starting in the
1990s with outsourcing formerly internal processes becom-
ing a more and more powerful strategic option for compa-
nies throughout all industries. Companies tend to engage in
networked value creation [42] which allows participants to
focus on their strengths. Partners in such ecosystems can
leverage the know-how and capital assets of partners, at the
same time spreading risk, sharing investment cost, and re-
tain ﬂexibility. By re-aggregating with partners a company
can broaden its range of customer attractions. Especially in
complex and highly dynamic industries, forming agile busi-
ness webs, is more than an attractive strategic alternative.
As [40] and [39] express it, such business webs bring to-
gether mutually networked, permanently changing, legally
independent actors in customer centric, mostly heterarchi-
cal organizational forms in order to create (joint) value for
customers. Specialized ﬁrms co-opetitively contribute mod-
ules to an overall value proposition under the presence of
network externalities.
It is natural that such decentralized scenarios require well-
designed economic mechanisms to organize value creation in
an eﬃcient manner. Auction designs to allocate and price
single services are presented in [2, 13] that mainly focus on

advertisement and search services. An auction for trad-
ing composite services is presented in [7]. Extending such
ideas to scenarios with multiple sellers and buyers fosters the
ﬁrst ideas of markets for Web services have been developed
in [24, 25, 28]. Nevertheless, [24, 25] assume the absence of
capacity constraints and the presence of complete markets.
They focus on suitable bidding languages for the exchange
of information objects and the matching of demand and sup-
ply.

There can be found a lot of literature about derivatives
in several markets: [23] discusses many practical aspects of
ﬁnancial derivatives, while [4, 12] present a more technical
treatment. The latter cover most mathematical aspects used
in this research, also including the incomplete market ap-
proach we adapt to our Web service scenario.

Although derivatives on electricity are frequently traded
since the beginning deregulation in the 1990s, research in
this area still focuses to a large extent on how to model
the underlying stochastic price process, calibrate it to al-
ready established markets like the European Energy Ex-
change (EEX) or Nord Pool (the Nordic Power Exchange),
and price the common traded electricity derivatives, like
Swing Options. Incompleteness in these markets is gener-
ally represented by a set of equivalent martingale measures,
which is not a singleton. [14,35] discuss diﬀerent approaches
of choosing the most appropriate measure from this set.

We propose in our work a Wavelet preprocessing approach
for seasonality detection to support and enhance ﬁne gran-
ular analysis and synthesis of deterministic parts of Web
service usage and price processes. A detailed discussion of
the mathematical foundations is outside the scope. Wavelet
Analysis can be considered being similar to Fourier Analysis.
While the the Fourier expansion provides a global spectral
(frequency) analysis of a given signal or time series, Wavelets
are basis functions localized both in time and frequency, al-
lowing long-term seasonality detection and the division of
the original data into detail signals on diﬀerent scales. These
characteristics prove to be useful to enhance the accuracy of
models and simulations of stochastic time series of Web ser-
vice usage processes, showing repeating patterns. For an
introduction and mathematical details we refer to [9–11]

4. WEB SERVICE DERIVATIVES MARKET
In this section we specify the abstract model for a Web
service derivative market by applying the fundamentals of
ﬁnancial mathematics of derivative trading in incomplete
markets, based on the characteristics of Web services. We
identify the necessary participants and propose an architec-
ture to realize the trade of these derivatives. Further on, we
discuss the necessity of a from stock and electricity markets
distinct approach. This approach utilizes Wavelets as pre-
processing tools to the in these ﬁelds widely used Fourier
approximation, in order to analyze and extract long- and
short-term seasonalities of an observed exemplary informa-
tion service usage process.
4.1 Abstract Model

Derivatives in ﬁnancial markets are priced according to
the principles of eﬃciency and completeness (cf. [4]). Eﬃ-
ciency means that all ﬁnancial instruments must be priced
so as to not allow for any arbitrage opportunities, while com-
pleteness implicates that every in the market traded deriva-
tive can be replicated, i. e. there exists a self-ﬁnancing trad-

WWW 2009 MADRID!Track: Internet Monetization / Session: Web Monetization274ing strategy, generally by forming a portfolio of assets but
not the derivative itself, replicating the behavior and out-
come of the derivative at every time spot. E. g. a European
call option is one of the most commonly traded derivatives
(also: contingent claims) in ﬁnancial markets, giving the
owner the right, but not the obligation, to buy one asset,
i. e. a certain amount of stock, at a predetermined price by
a speciﬁc time, the date of maturity T . Thus, the option to-
day is worth the by the continuously compounded risk free
rate discounted diﬀerence of the yet unknown stock price at
T and the option’s exercise price. If this diﬀerence is not
positive, the option is worth zero. This today’s value is a
priori derived by calculating a unique purchase price, con-
sidering the stochastic price process of the underlying asset.
This is the Black-Scholes model, and it can be applied, since
the primary assumption, that the market is complete, holds.
Thus, in principle the call option is rendered redundant, as
the exact same outcome can be reproduced by forming a
portfolio consisting of a risk free asset (like a bank account
with a certain interest rate) and the stock itself, which is
then continuously adapted in time, to replicate the deriva-
tive’s behavior. It is important to notice, that the price is
independent of individual risk attitudes, as the stochastic
process is observed under a risk neutral probability measure
(also: martingale measure), which in this case is unique,
thus yielding also a unique price without any arbitrage op-
portunities. Hence, completeness is a situational fact which
is obtained from the actual market, while eﬃciency is the
objective to be achieved in pricing the derivative, regardless
of the respective underlying at hand.

As Web services, once they are acquired at a spot mar-
ket, in general can neither be stored, resold, nor further
actively traded, it is not possible to set up any portfolio
containing the respective underlying. Thus, we deal in our
scenario with an incomplete market, implying that replica-
tion of derivatives generally is not feasible. As a result, any
derived prices are not unique. In order to avoid any possi-
ble arbitrage opportunities, we follow the method of pricing
contingent claims in incomplete markets [4], stating, that
even though prices of these claims cannot be uniquely de-
termined, they must be at least consistent to each other. A
detailed illustration of all mathematical aspects in this sec-
tion can be found there, we omit non-essential details and
function arguments.

We assume that at a speciﬁc time, mission-critical Web
services are sold to all service requesters through the market
mechanism for the same price, i. e. we model the price as a
stochastic process X, generally given by

acquire this claim at t0 with t0 < T is not unique, due
to the lack of replication by the non-tradeable underlying
Web service. However, the price of any additional claim
Z = Γ(X(T ′)), depending on the same stochastic process X
and arbitrary T ′, must be priced in consistency to Y so as
not to introduce any arbitrage opportunities. We denote by
F (t, X(t)) and G(t, X(t)) the market price processes of Y
and Z, respectively. As these processes depend on the same
single source of uncertainty W P , we can, similar to Black-
Scholes, form a riskless portfolio of these two derivatives, in-
stead of one derivative and the respective underlying, which
must return the rate of interest r. Using the Itˆo formula the
price processes are given by

dF = αF F dt + σF F dW P , with

∂F

αF :=

∂x + 1

∂t + µ ∂F
F

2 σ2 ∂ 2F

∂x2

, and

σF :=

σ ∂F
∂x
F

.

We have used a short notation and suppressed the argu-
ments (t, X(t)) for F , µ, σ, αF and σF , with x = X(t). We
deﬁne dG, αG and σG analogously. In order to eliminate the
Wiener process, and thus, the risk, we form a locally risk-
less portfolio of these two derivatives, i. e. it remains riskless
only for a very short amount of time before it needs to get
adjusted, which must therefore return the risk free interest
rate r. Then, simple algebraic manipulation leads to

αF (t) − r

σF (t)

=

αG(t) − r

σG(t)

=: λ(t),

with each side of the equation dependent only on the respec-
tive derivative, and λ the market price of risk, being equal for
all derivatives of X, also known from the Capital Asset Pric-
ing Model (CAPM) theory (cf. [34, 37]). This market price
of risk already incorporates factors like expected resource
outages, liquidity preferences and risk attitudes, aggregated
over all market participants. Assuming λ(t) to be known
for all t, we can express the unique price by a boundary
valuation problem (for the readers convenience we omit the
respective equations here) or equivalently use the Feynman-
Kaˇc representation to price the new derivative Z in a risk
neutral valuation under the martingale measure Q (cf. [20]):

G(t, X(t)) = e−r(T ′

−t)EQ

t, X(t)[Γ(X(T ′))],

(2)

with the dynamics of X under Q given by

dX(t) = µ(t, X(t)) dt + σ(t, X(t)) dW P (t),

(1)

dX(t) ={µ(t, X(t)) − λ(t, X(t))σ(t, X(t))} dt

where µ is a local deterministic drift, σ the diﬀusion term
for W P , being a scalar Wiener process under the objective
probability measure P , and time t. Furthermore, we assume
the existence of a risk free asset, like a bank account, whose
dynamics are given by

dB(t) = rB(t) dt,

i. e. invested currency in this account increases accordingly
to the (constant) interest rate r.

Be Y any simple contingent T -claim, i. e. a derivative with
date of maturity T , which depends only on the outcome
X(T ), and therefore is denoted by Y = Φ(X(T )), with the
contract function Φ. As already pointed out the price to

+ σ(t, X(t)) dW Q(t).

In this way, any additional derivative of the underlying price
process X can be priced consistently to the already existing
(traded) ones, thus, preserving the eﬃciency of the market.
In a complete or internally consistent market the martin-
gale measure Q (or equivalently the market price of risk λ,
depending whether we choose the solution of the price prob-
lem to be represented by (2) or a boundary value problem)
is unique, and the assumption of this function to be known
marks the crucial point in our scenario: While we empirically
can observe X under P and thus, determine µ and σ, this
does not hold for λ as the function depends on the contin-
gent claims of type Y, which cannot be priced uniquely, but

WWW 2009 MADRID!Track: Internet Monetization / Session: Web Monetization275are assumed to be traded in the market anyway. Therefore,
λ needs to be observed on and derived from the market itself
by applying numerical methods like least squares optimiza-
tion to theoretical and observed prices. One begins with a
parameterized family of functions λ(t, X(t), β), β ∈ Rk, a

number of observed actual prices eFi(t, X(t)), i = 1, . . . , n,

of the traded derivative Y, computes the theoretical pricing
functions Fi(t, X(t), β), and solves the least squares mini-
mization problem for the actual time slot t = t0 and known
outcomes X(t0)

min

β∈Rk" nXi=1nFi(t0, X(t0), β) − eFi(t0, X(t0))o2#

in order to minimize the error between the two prices and
determine the optimal parameter vector β.

Thus, the critical point lies in the ansatz of the cho-
sen function template and the respective parameters. This
choice, of course, is not unique and is similar to ﬁnancial
short rate models, with the parameter determination closely
related to what is known as the inversion of the yield curve.
As the estimation of optimal models and parameters is com-
plex and requires specialized abilities, like access to market
data and analysis, it seems appropriate to implement this
task as a Web service itself, as is discussed in our architec-
ture proposal.

4.2 Architecture

Environments in which distributed units provide function-
ality in a loosely-coupled manner require some sort of pro-
cess or set of rules to align activities in order to generate a
desired outcome, i.e. they require coordination. The objec-
tive of coordination is to make a set of entities – either by
providing incentives or establishing constraints upon them
– pursue a common goal, e.g. producing a deﬁned outcome.
Coordination can be formalized by designing adequate mech-
anisms, i.e sets of rules that govern the interaction between
the various entities. Coordination is the key instrument to
organize multiple activities especially in distributed environ-
ments. In the context of Web services two speciﬁcations pro-
vide frameworks to implement coordination scenarios, WS-
Coordination [27] and WS-CF [8]. This work focuses on WS-
Coordination as it is a ﬁnalized standard in contrary to WS-
CF, which is still a public review draft. WS-Coordination
is based on concepts and roles that are represented by Web
services. Initiator, coordinator and participants communi-
cate using a common context that glues their interaction to
the coordinated activity. The framework allows for diﬀer-
ent coordination protocols to be plugged in to coordinate
domain-speciﬁc work between clients, services and partici-
pants.

The architecture for the acquisition of Web service deriva-
tives involves ﬁve parties and is depicted in Figure 2. The
Web service provider continuously updates his future service
availability to a Web service derivative intermediary, which
is responsible for the calculation of a fair derivative valu-
ation. This task can be carried out by the market maker
introduced in [29] which is responsible for running the Web
service market. As soon as a prospective Web service con-
sumer issues a request along with the required data, like the
derivative type and time of maturity, the intermediary re-
quests via another Web service a specialized derivative pa-
rameter provider. Determination of these parameters, in-

cluding the drift and volatility of the underlying price pro-
cess as well as the market price of risk, may not always be an
easy task and requires speciﬁc skills. In order to minimize
the inevitable numerical errors in this calculation, historic
and most actual market data are needed. In the case the
derivative parameter provider has not the means to access
this critical data, he issues another request to a market in-
formation provider.

Having received the necessary market data, the market
price of risk is calculated and delivered to the derivative
intermediary, who in turn determines now the unique con-
sistent derivative value. Afterwards, he sends a notiﬁcation
together with a unique request ID to some chosen Web ser-
vice provider enabling him to hold the reservation, and to
the derivative requester itself.

In case the derivative contains only the right but not the
obligation to exercise it, before or at the date of maturity the
service consumer, being the holder of the derivative, notiﬁes
the respective provider, which has written (i. e. sold) the
claim, of its decision.

4.3 Discussion

As markets grow in respect to participants as well as to
traded contract amounts and volumes, the general impor-
tance of this market gains weight. Fast changing supply and
demand, even fostered by electronic markets and a result
from their accessability, will drive the market further away
from ﬁxed price models, resulting in a competition among
market participants, i. e. Web service providers as well as
requesters, towards dynamic price processes. As this hap-
pened before in many industrial commodity markets, and
also in markets trading intangible goods or alike services,
e. g. electricity or Google’s Adwords auction (cf. [13]), it is
reasonable to assume, that matters will be the same with
future Web services markets. As in these businesses the vol-
ume of involved monetary means increases, the focus on risk
management becomes more important.

Derivatives are a natural instrument to hedge potential
risks that all participants are exposed to. Besides economic
issues like escalating prices, consumers bear the risk of non-
availability of Web services, especially in environments where
resources or specialized skills are rare. As this fact could lead
to severe consequences being hard to model, e. g. failing busi-
ness processes because of an unavailable mission-critical Web
service, we restrict our point of view to economic risks, where
rare Web services are represented by high prices. Contin-
gent advance reservation via derivatives helps both service
providers and consumers to hedge those risks, additionally
rendering other positive eﬀects: Though we deﬁned deriva-
tives on a set of equivalent Web services, in reality users may
face serious adaption costs if the service acquisition happens
on the spot market only. Reservation allows for long-term
planning and process adaptation, diminishing these costs.
This also holds for the service provider who can reduce his
operational costs, considering the expected amount of re-
quests for his planning horizon. Additionally, even in times
of unexpectedly high prices, the provider maintains an ad-
vantageous position, as he can be assured that the consumer
will request the service with him and not with any other
competitor, thus, compensating potential losses.

In equation (1) we assumed the stochastic price process
X(t) to be determined by a single source of uncertainty W P ,
which is a Wiener process. With µ and σ being constant

WWW 2009 MADRID!Track: Internet Monetization / Session: Web Monetization276:webServiceProvider

:webServiceConsumer

:webServiceDerivative

Intermediary

i

 
e
c
v
r
e
S
 
b
e
W

t
s
e
u
q
e
R
 
e
v
i
t
a
v
i
r
e
D

i

e
s
c
r
e
x
E
 
d
n
a
 
n
o
i
t
a
c
i
f
i
t
o
N

*[changed status] webServiceInformationSubmission

webServiceDerivativeRequest

:webServiceDerivativeParameter

:webServiceMarketInformation

Provider

Provider

webServiceDerivativeParameterRequest

n
o
i
t
a
u
c
a
C
 
e
c
i
r

l

l

P
 
e
v
i
t
a
v
i
r
e
D
 
e
c
v
r
e
S
 
b
e
W

i

webServiceMarketInformationRequest

webServiceMarketInformationProvision

marketPriceofRiskCalculation

webServiceDerivativeParameterProvision

webServiceDerivativePriceCalculation

webServiceDerivativeProviderNotification

webServiceDerivativeConsumerNotification

webServiceDerivativeExecutionNotification

Figure 2: Web Service Derivative Acquisition UML Diagram

this yields a geometric Brownian motion. Though this is a
reasonable and well accepted approximation for stock price
processes, it is long known that this does not hold for other
underlyings like physical commodities or currencies, where
additional seasonal factors aﬀect the process and price jumps
occur.
In [36] the authors discuss several stochastic pro-
cesses for modeling the prices of day ahead contracts traded
at the EEX, and calibrated the models to empirical mar-
ket data prior to a statistical analysis.
In their scenario
a process, consisting of a deterministic part D(t), describ-
ing the seasonal patterns and linear long-term trend, and a
stochastic component S(t), best describes the peculiarities
like seasonalities, spikes and mean reversion observed in elec-
tricity spot prices. This stochastic part is characterized by
four independent stochastic processes, namely two Wiener
processes describing long- and short-term ﬂuctuations, and
two exponential Poisson processes adding jump components.
Though it is not possible to establish an obvious correlation
between electricity and Web service supply, demand and re-
lated price ﬂuctuation patterns, similar characteristics let
us assume that Web service price processes most likely will
reveal a similar behavior including several stochastic factors.
As with this more complex price process we have more
than one independent source of uncertainty, our model in
Section 4.1 needs to be generalized to the multidimensional
case, resulting in a market price vector of risk and a volatil-
ity matrix. This is straightforward as is shown in [4]. Since
in this models we deal with probably m ≥ 1 stochastic pro-
cesses, we also have to specify m diﬀerent benchmark deriva-
tives, prior to be able to establish a consistent Web service
derivative market.

4.4 Wavelet Preprocessing Analysis

As we have stressed, the underlying stochastic process
X(t) = S(t) + D(t) plays a key role in determining fair
derivative prices, hence most accurate modeling should be
intended. In this section we focus on how to adapt and im-
prove established methods from other ﬁelds (here: electricity
markets), being the closest to our scenario, to model the de-
terministic part D(t).
In [36] this part of daily measured
prices was assumed to be of the form

D(t) =

365.25(cid:19) + si,2 cos(cid:18) 2πkt
365.25(cid:19)

si,1 sin(cid:18) 2πkt
kXi=1
+Xj∈N

1j sj,3 + tµ

with k to be chosen the ﬁrst k summands of the Fourier series
modeling (partial-) annual seasonalities, N being the set of
week- and holidays representing (in conjunction with the in-
dicator functions 1j ) more ﬁne granular seasonal patterns,
µ a general linear trend, and t, as usual, the time. The
parameter vector s was then estimated by a least squares
approximation of the original process taken over several ob-
served periods, thus, separating the deterministic from the
stochastic part.

While this method may work well for electricity markets,
which are subject to local restrictions given the physical
characteristics of the traded good, matters will be diﬀer-
ent in Web service markets. Though some services may be
restricted to a geographical context (e. g. a weather infor-
mation service, restricted to a certain area itself), this does
not hold for the general case. Given a global accessability
of these services, annual, weekly or daily patterns are likely

WWW 2009 MADRID!Track: Internet Monetization / Session: Web Monetization277to intensify or mitigate, depending on the degree of possible
global usage. To illustrate this case we exemplarily analyzed
server usage statistics of the English and German Wikipedia
sites, being the most frequented ones, from April to August
200811, shown in Figure 3(a), with the hours counted from
April the 7th, 2008, 00:00 UTC. Though being a service of
a very similar nature, the German usage statistics reveal
stronger seasonal ﬂuctuations due to local dependencies as
e. g. around Easter. While the English site, being accessed
from a much more global community, still shows a relatively
sharp decline during the summer months, local events aﬀect
only a small percentage of the service requesters, and thus,
have less eﬀects on the whole usage statistics.

Thus, we are confronted with the problem of choosing a
reasonable k and ﬁnding the proper set N . While for k = 1
we still have the reasonable interpretation of detecting sea-
sonalities of a one year period, an analogous argumentation
for k > 1 is diﬃcult to justify, since periods of half or quar-
ter of a year cannot be reasoned, yet these intervals are
predetermined by the yet substantiable choice of the basic
period. By choosing an overly large k, undesired eﬀects from
smaller scales like weeks or days will be captured by the ap-
proximation, too, while picking k too small, will result in
an oversmoothed solution, i. e. the approximation does not
capture the essential seasonalities contained in the original
signal. The dilemma of choosing the best k, which does not
only depend on the period but also on the not yet analyzed
signal, can be tried to be captured by the extensive use of
indicator functions, as depicted above. However, these func-
tions have to be adjusted after a rigorous examination of the
relevant elements in N and the respective aﬀected user per-
centage separately for every Web service. As this can result
in a very costly analysis (if feasible at all) simply transfer-
ring the methods employed in electricity markets seems to
be inconvenient and requires an adapted diﬀerent approach.
Wavelets have long become a popular tool in time series
analysis [31]. In our scenario they allow for a nonparametric
regression analysis instead of assuming and specifying a pri-
ori a parametric model by sinusoidal and indicator functions
like the one we depicted above. In contrast to the Fourier
expansion, which allows only for a global spectral analysis,
Wavelets are bases functions localized in time and frequency,
enabling us to analyze signals and time series locally on dif-
ferent scales. Roughly speaking, we are capable of separat-
ing long term (e.g. annual) seasonalities from short-term
(e.g. weekly and daily) patterns without assuming a spe-
ciﬁc underlying function. This is realized through iterative
smoothing on diﬀerent scales: Applying a Wavelet decom-
position of level J to a signal implies J times an iterative

partition of the signal into a smooth part eSj, and a detailed
part eDj , j = 1, . . . J, on a dyadic grid. At every level eSj
(with eS0 equal to the original signal) is decomposed into
eSj+1 = eSj + eDj , with eSj (t) being the average mean of the

2j interval centered about t. Therefore, while we still need
to take care of choosing a reasonable level J in order not
to include too many details in our approximation or even
oversmooth it, we have to some extent direct control over
the approximation procedure, as we can select the interval
over which the average mean is to be calculated. E. g. if
we choose in our scenario J = 9, we smooth the signal by
computing the average mean at every point centered in an

11accessible at http://dammit.lt/wikistats/

interval 29 = 512 hours, which equals approximately three
weeks.

Analyzing the observed signals in such a way also elimi-
nates one possible problem one encounters when assuming a
speciﬁc deterministic model: Though the parameters of the
model are best ﬁt to the data through regression methods,
it cannot be ensured that the assumed model really captures
all deterministic information present in the signal. By ana-
lyzing the data on diﬀerent scales via Wavelet techniques one
does not encounter these problems, as the approximation re-
lies only on the observed data itself. This is illustrated in
Figure 3(c) where we did not assume an explicit parameter-
ized trend function (due to the reasons pointed out above),
but compared the weekly mean and the Wavelet approxima-
tion. The approximation was derived by reconstructing the
scaling coeﬃcients obtained via a level 9 discrete Wavelet
decomposition using the Daubechies-10 (D10) Wavelets (for
technical details see [10]).

Since we are mainly interested in the analysis and synthe-
sis of periodic signals, the Wavelet approximation reveals
a ﬂaw at this point, since even if we analyze a signal over
several periods, the ﬁnal approximation will not be periodic
(as we did not even choose a period, but rather the scale
of the decomposition). The idea we propose is then, to use
Wavelets as a preprocessing technique prior to the Fourier

proximation, with period length P , solving the least squares
problem

expansion: Having computed eSJ , we perform a periodic ap-
Xt "eSJ (t) −

and choose k suﬃciently large, until the preselected error
limit ǫ is reached. The original data can then be adjusted by
such detected deterministic seasonalities in order to extract
the pure stochastic part.

kXi=1

si,1 sin(cid:18) 2πkt

P (cid:19)#2
P (cid:19) + si,2 cos(cid:18) 2πkt

< ǫ

Based on the assumption that Web service request time
series are correlated with the their dependent business pro-
cesses and their integration into human working patterns,
potential weekly and daily patterns should also be separated
from the remaining stochastic part(cf. [1]). Figure 3(b) de-
picts in detail the ﬁrst three weeks of the analyzed data.

Observable daily and weekly patterns encourage to repeat
the above procedure, only changing the approximation level
and Wavelet base according to the desired scope of analysis.
A derived seasonality for one week (D4, level 6) is illustrated
in Figure 3(d). The daily case is analogous.

By removing the deterministic components from the orig-
inal data we receive the stochastic part. For long-term syn-
thesis a linear trend tµ would have to be estimated addition-
ally to the annual, weekly and daily patterns. The remain-
ing stochastic signal can then be stated by a parameterized
model. The initialization of the model and estimation of the
parameters can be done by established methods, like max-
imum likelihood estimation or Markov Chain Monte Carlo,
applied to the remaining processes (cf. [36]).

The analysis of usage or demand statistics instead of real
price processes may not be done without questioning. How-
ever, our approach is justiﬁable for two reasons. First, as
there is actually no observable dynamic price process of elec-
tronic services, being a focus of research itself, analyzing ac-
cessible usage statistics seems more promising than heuristi-
cally establishing correlations to observable price processes

WWW 2009 MADRID!Track: Internet Monetization / Session: Web Monetization278x 106

12

s
t
s
e
u
q
e
r

10

8

6

4

2

 

en
de

x 106

12

 

en
de

s
t
s
e
u
q
e
r

10

8

6

4

2

0

 
0

500

1000

1500

2000
hours

2500

3000

3500

4000

0

 
0

100

200

300
hours

400

500

600

(a) Wikipedia Requests April to August

(b) April Data of Wikipedia Server Requests

 

Original Data
Weekly Mean
Wavelet Approximation

x 106

12

11

10

9

8

7

6

5

4

s
t
s
e
u
q
e
r

3

 
0

500

1000

1500

2000
hours

2500

3000

3500

4000

x 106

11

10

s
t
s
e
u
q
e
r

9

8

7

6

5

4

3

 
0

 

Original Data
Daily Mean
Wavelet Approximation

20

40

60

80

100

120

140

160

180

hours

(c) Long-Term Approximation Seasonality

(d) Approximate Weekly Deterministic Part

Figure 3: Wikipedia Request Data

of hardly related (e. g. energy) markets. Second, one may
reason, that a service in the WWW, be it with costs or for
free, would not be accessed if the user would not assign a
value to it. Dynamic price processes will be correlated to
the amount of requests and available resources at a certain
time. While the analysis of a free service seems not ap-
propriate at ﬁrst, transforming it into a service connected
with fees would at most only ﬂatten the observed patterns,
preserving its general structure.

5. CONCLUSION & FUTURE WORK

In this research we proposed the usage of Web service
derivatives to hedge economic risks in open Web service mar-
kets and enhance internal process eﬃciency, due to improved
planning horizons. On the basis of Web service character-
istics we reasoned the model of an incomplete market and
applied general results of ﬁnancial mathematics to obtain ef-
ﬁcient, i. e. arbitrage free, and consistent derivative pricing,
also covering the matter of hedging using these derivatives.
We also proposed an architecture enabling participants to
actively trade derivatives, where a Web service intermedi-
ary assumes a central role.

We analyzed and discussed Wikipedia usage statistics and
justiﬁed the need for a from electricity markets diﬀerent
approach of modeling price processes in Web service mar-
kets, as in general the latter are not subject to geographic
or other quantiﬁable restrictions. Wavelets allow for a non-
parametric preprocessing approach separating long- and short-
term seasonalities of the deterministic part of the data from
its stochastic components, while being robust against local
high-frequency outliers and details.

tic parts and calibrate these now parametric models to the
observed data. After that, valuation of derivatives either
through analytic or stochastic methods is feasible. As hedg-
ing is closely related to consistent derivative pricing in com-
plete or incomplete markets, this can be seen as one further
ﬁeld of research. From a theoretical point of view this is-
sue is already covered in e. g. [4], although requiring a liquid
derivative market. This liquidity could be a serious issue
in Web service derivative markets where a small number of
participants cannot provide this prerequisite. Considering
other established markets we notice, that this is not crit-
ical there, as we perceive a great number of participants,
trading derivative purely for investment purposes without
being interested in actual delivery of goods or energy. This
kind of participants would also foster liquidity in Web ser-
vice markets, as dynamic price processes oﬀer interesting
perspective for speculating investors. Though being some
time away from actually becoming reality, this kind of thing
has happened in almost all markets where derivatives are
traded, increasing the size and importance of these markets
in global perception.

6. REFERENCES
[1] F. Abramovich, T. Bailey, and T. Sapatinas. Wavelet

Analysis and its Statistical Applications. Journal of
the Royal Statistical Society,(Series D): The
Statistician, 49(1):1–29, 2000.

[2] G. Aggarwal, A. Goel, and R. Motwani. Truthful

auctions for pricing search keywords. In Proceedings of
the 7th ACM conference on Electronic commerce,
pages 1–7. ACM New York, NY, USA, 2006.

Further research will include modeling explicitly the stochas-

[3] M. Bitner, W. Faranda, A. Hubbert, and V. Zeithaml.

WWW 2009 MADRID!Track: Internet Monetization / Session: Web Monetization279Customer Contributions and Roles in Service
Delivery. International Journal of Service Industry
Management, 8(3):193–205, 1997.

[4] T. Bj¨ork. Arbitrage Theory in Continuous Time.

Oxford University Press, USA, 2004.

[5] F. Black and M. Scholes. The Pricing of Options and

Corporate Liabilities. Journal of Political Economy,
81(3):637, 1973.

[6] B. Blau, C. Block, and J. St¨osser. How to trade

electronic services? – current status and open
questions. In Group Decision and Negotiation (GDN),
2008.

[7] B. Blau, S. Lamparter, D. Neumann, and

C. Weinhardt. Planning and pricing of service
mashups. In IEEE Joint Conference on E-Commerce
Technology (CEC’08) and Enterprise Computing,
E-Commerce and E-Services (EEE ’08), 21-24 July
2008, Washington, D.C., USA, 2008.

[8] M. Chapter, E. Newcomer, M. Little, and G. Pavlik.

Web Services Coordination Framework (WS-CF).
Technical report, OASIS, 10 2005.
http://www.oasis-open.org/committees/ws-caf/.

[9] A. Cohen and R. Ryan. Wavelets and multiscale signal

[24] S. Lamparter, A. Ankolekar, R. Studer, D. Oberle,
and C. Weinhardt. A policy framework for trading
conﬁgurable goods and services in open electronic
markets. In Proceedings of the 8th International
Conference on Electronic Commerce, pages 162–173.
ACM New York, NY, USA, 2006.

[25] S. Lamparter and B. Schnizler. Trading services in
ontology-driven markets. In Proceedings of the 2006
ACM symposium on Applied computing, pages
1679–1683. ACM New York, NY, USA, 2006.

[26] C. Lovelock and J. Wirtz. Services Marketing: People,

Technology, Strategy. Prentice Hall, 2001.

[27] E. Newcomer, I. Robinson, M. Feingold, and

R. Jeyaraman. Web Services Coordination
(WS-Coordination). Technical report, OASIS, 7 2007.
http://docs.oasis-open.org/ws-tx/wscoor/.

[28] M. Papazoglou and D. Georgakopoulos.

Service-Oriented Computing. Communications of the
ACM, 46(10):25–28, 2003.

[29] M. Papazoglou and W. van den Heuvel. Service

oriented architectures: approaches, technologies and
research issues. The International Journal on Very
Large Data Bases, 16(3):389–415, 2007.

processing. Chapman & Hall New York, NY, 1995.

[30] P. Papazoglou. Web Services: Principles and

[10] I. Daubechies and B. Bates. Ten Lectures on Wavelets.

Technologies. Prentice Hall, 2008.

The Journal of the Acoustical Society of America,
93:1671, 1993.

[31] D. Percival and A. Walden. Wavelet Methods for Time

Series Analysis. Cambridge University Press, 2000.

[11] I. Daubechies et al. Orthonormal bases of compactly

[32] F. Piller, K. Moeslein, and C. Stotko. Does Mass

supported wavelets. Comm. Pure Appl. Math,
41(7):909–996, 1988.

[12] F. Delbaen and W. Schachermayer. The Mathematics

of Arbitrage. Springer, 2006.

Customization Pay? An Economic Approach to
Evaluate Customer Integration. Production Planning
& Control, 15(4):435–444, 2004.

[33] J. Rathmell. What is meant by services? Journal of

[13] B. Edelman, M. Ostrovsky, and M. Schwarz. Internet

Marketing, 30(4):32–36, 1966.

Advertising and the Generalized Second-Price
Auction: Selling Billions of Dollars Worth of
Keywords. American Economic Review,
97(1):242–259, 2007.

[34] S. Ross. The Arbitrage Theory of Capital Asset
Pricing. Rodney L. White Center for Financial
Research, University of Pennsylvania, The Wharton
School, 1973.

[14] M. Frittelli. The Minimal Entropy Martingale

[35] M. Schweizer. A guided tour through quadratic

Measure and the Valuation Problem in Incomplete
Markets. Mathematical Finance, 10(1):39–52, 2000.

hedging approaches. Option Pricing, Interest Rates
and Risk Management, pages 538–574, 2001.

[15] V. Fuchs. The Service Economy. Natl Bureau of

[36] J. Seifert and M. Uhrig-Homburg. Modelling jumps in

Economic Res, 1968.

[16] J. Gadrey. L’´economie des services. 1992.
[17] J. Gadrey. The Characterization of Goods and

Services: An Alternative Approach. Review of Income
and Wealth, 46(3):369–387, 2000.

electricity prices: theory and empirical evidence.
Review of Derivatives Research, 10(1):59–85, 1 2007.

[37] W. Sharpe. Capital Asset Prices: A Theory of Market

Equilibrium under Conditions of Risk. Journal of
Finance, 19(3):425–442, 1964.

[18] F. Gallouj and O. Weinstein. Innovation in Services.

[38] G. Shostack. Planning the Service Encounter. The

Research Policy, 26(4-5):537–556, 1997.

[19] Z. Griliches. Output Measurement in the Service

Sectors, Studies in Income and Wealth, Volume 56.
1992.

[20] J. Harrison and D. Kreps. Martingales and Arbitrage

in Multiperiod Securities Markets. Department of
Applied Economics, University of Cambridge, 1979.

[21] T. Hill. On Goods and Services. Review of Income and

Wealth, 23(4):315–338, 1977.

[22] T. Hill. Tangibles, Intangibles and Services: A New

Taxonomy for the Classiﬁcation of Output. Canadian
Journal of Economics, 32:426–446, 1999.

[23] J. Hull. Options, futures, and other derivatives.

Prentice Hall Upper Saddle River, NJ, 2003.

Service Encounter, Lexington Books, Lexington, MA,
pages 243–54, 1985.

[39] F. Steiner. Formation and Early Growth of Business

Webs: Modular Product Systems in Network Markets.
Physica-Verlag Heidelberg, 2004.

[40] D. Tapscott, A. Lowy, and D. Ticoll. Digital Capital:

Harnessing the Power of Business Webs. Harvard
Business School Press, 2000.

[41] A. Zeithaml Valarie and M. Bitner. Services

Marketing. 1996.

[42] A. Zerdick, A. Picot, K. Schrape, A. Artop´e,

K. Goldhammer, U. T. Lange, E. Vierkant,
E. L´opez-Escobar, and R. Silvertone. E-economics.
Strategies for the Digital Marketplace. Springer, 2000.

WWW 2009 MADRID!Track: Internet Monetization / Session: Web Monetization280