Towards the Policy-Aware Web: The Real Web 3.0?

Panel 

Organizer: 

W3C Policy Languages 

Interest Group 

 
 

Renato Iannella 

Chair: 

NICTA 

Brisbane, QLD 4000, Australia 

renato@nicta.com.au 

 

Elisa Bertino 

Purdue University, USA 

Lalana Kagal 

Massachusetts Institute of 

Technology, USA 

Piero Bonatti 

Universita' di Napoli Federico II, 

 

Italy 

 

Marco Casassa-Mont 

Hewlett-Packard, UK 

Irene Pollach 

University of Aarhus, Denmark 

Thomas Roessler 

W3C, France 

 
PANEL OVERVIEW 
The  sharing  and control of information on the Web needs to be 
balanced to provide the web community with the best experience 
and  outcomes.  The  Policy-Aware  Web  is  an  emerging  direction 
that  may  hold  the  key  in  getting  this  balance  right  by  allowing 
future policy languages to maintain this harmonization. This panel 
will  discuss,  highlight,  and  debate  the  challenges  in  moving 
towards the Policy-Aware Web and the paths it could lead. The 
target  audience  includes  all  web  stakeholders  as  most  policies, 
such  as  privacy  and  rights,  are  intrinsic  to  all  web  users, 
information, services and content. 
Categories & Subject Descriptors: 
H.3.5 [Information Storage and Retrieval]: Online Information  
Services—Web-based services 
 
General Terms:  
Languages, Legal Aspects, Management, Security, 
Standardization. 
 
Keywords:  
Policy-Aware Web, Privacy, Rights, Identity. 
 
PANEL DESCRIPTION 
The  Policy-Aware  Web  is  the  promise  for  supporting  policy 
management  at  the  Web  infrastructure  level  and  is  now 
becoming  a  focus  of  new  research  for  the  Web  [1]  and 
workshops [2] and a W3C Interest Group [3]. A policy is any set 
of rules or statements that capture and express the requirements 
of  individuals  and  organizations  from  a  corporate,  legal,  best 
practices, and/or social perspective. Currently, policy languages 
exist that cover and broadly address privacy, access control, and 
obligation  management  areas.  However,  what  is  missing  is  an 
 
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s). 
WWW 2008, April 21–25, 2008, Beijing, China. 
ACM 978-1-60558-085-2/08/04. 

 

overall  framework  and  architecture  allowing  a  combination  of 
constraints and policy languages to interoperate and provide an 
accountable, enforceable, flexible and trusted experience for the 
web community. 
The  panel  will  discuss  how  to  identify  and  overcome  the 
obstacles  of  current  web  technologies  and  the  road  forward 
towards the policy-aware web architecture. In addition, the Web 
community  needs  to  understand  the  benefits  and  expected 
enhancements  from  the  policy-aware  web  and  what  role  they 
can  play 
the  requirements  to  drive  the  new 
architecture.  The  panel  will  also  discuss  current  policy 
specifications  and  supporting  standards,  such  as  the  Semantic 
Web, and the role they play on the future policy-aware web.  
In  particular,  we  look  for  answers  and  directions  to  the 
following debatable points of view: 

in  setting 

•  Will  the  web  community  accept  or  need  a  policy-

aware web?  

•  What 

is 

the  range  of  policies 

that  should  be 

supported?  

•  Will the Semantic Web really help or hinder?  
•  What standards need to be developed?  
•  Who will lead this work?  
•  How to gracefully introduce the policy-aware web to 

the existing web?  

•  How will users trust the policy-aware web? 
•  Having  a  standard  policy 

language  with  well 
understood semantics seems to the easiest approach. Is 
this a good starting point? 

The  answers  will  probably  not  be  simple  and  straightforward, 
but  hopefully  will  be  controversial  enough  for  a  lively 
discussion.  More  importantly,  it  will  cover  various  issues  like 
information  needs,  user  experience,  policy  models,  and 
interoperability. 
 

1251WWW 2008 / Panel OverviewApril 21-25, 2008 · Beijing, ChinaPANELISTS 
Elisa Bertino, Purdue University, USA  
Elisa  is  professor  at  the  Department  of  Computer  Science, 
Purdue University and Research Director of CERIAS. Her main 
research interests cover many areas in the fields of information 
security  and  database  systems.  Her  research  combines  both 
theoretical and practical aspects, addressing as well applications 
on a number of domains, such as medicine and humanities.  
Piero Bonatti, Universita' di Napoli Federico II, Italy  
Piero is full professor at the University of Naples "Federico II", 
and  the  coordinator  of  the  WG  on  policies  of  the  European 
network  of  excellence  REWERSE.  His  research  interests 
include  foundational  and  applicative  aspects  of  computer 
security,  knowledge  representation  and  reasoning,  and  the 
mutual relationships between these fields. 
Marco Casassa-Mont, Hewlett-Packard, UK  
Marco  is  a  senior  researcher  and  technical  contributor  at  HP 
Labs  in  Bristol.  His  research  interests  are  related  to  security, 
privacy  and  trust,  adaptive  systems,  web  services  and  web 
technologies.  His  work  includes  research  and  development  of 
secure  and  trusted  technologies,  systems  and  solutions  for 
people, enterprises and the Internet. He is co-chair of the W3C 
Policy Languages Interest Group. 
Renato Iannella, NICTA, Australia  
Renato  is  a  Principal  Scientist  at  the  National  ICT  Australia 
(NICTA)  research 
the  Smart 
Applications  For  Emergencies  (SAFE)  project.  His  research 
covers  technologies  and  standards  in  information  engineering 
and  architectures,  rights  management,  and  policy-based  web 
infrastructures.  He  is  co-chair  of  the  W3C  Policy  Languages 
Interest Group and former member of the W3C Advisory Board.  

laboratory  where  he 

leads 

 

is  part  of 

Intelligence  Laboratory  and 

Lalana  Kagal,  Massachusetts  Institute  of  Technology, 
USA  
Lalana is a Research Scientist at the MIT Computer Science and 
Artificial 
the 
Decentralized Information Group. Her research interests include 
policy  languages  and  frameworks,  knowledge  representation, 
behavior  and  knowledge  management 
in  dynamic  and 
distributed  environments,  and  privacy  and  trust  in  information 
systems. 
Irene Pollach, University of Aarhus, Denmark  
Irene is an Assistant Professor at the Department of Language 
and Business Communication at the University of Aarhus. Her 
research  interests  include  web-mediated  communication  of 
companies  and  non-profits,  data  privacy,  and  qualitative 
methods.  
Thomas Roessler, W3C, France  
Thomas is Security Activity Lead at W3C and team contact for 
the  W3C  Policy  Languages  Interest  Group.  Thomas  has 
published  and  given  talks  on  topics  including  anonymization 
services,  legal  questions  of  digital  signatures,  and  online 
privacy.  

REFERENCES 
[1]  Weitzner, D., Hendler, J., Berners-Lee, T., & Connolly, D. 

Creating a policy-aware web: Discretionary, rule-based 
access for the world wide web. In Elena Ferrari and 
Bhavani Thuraisingham, editors, Web and Information 
Security. IRM Press, 2006  

[2]  W3C Workshop on Languages for Privacy Policy 

Negotiation and Semantics-Driven Enforcement, 17 - 18 
October 2006, Ispra, Italy 
<http://www.w3.org/2006/07/privacy-ws/> 

[3]  W3C Policy Languages Interest Group 

<http://www.w3.org/Policy/pling/> 

1252WWW 2008 / Panel OverviewApril 21-25, 2008 · Beijing, China