Rethinking Email Message and People Search

Sebastian Michel

Ecole Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne

sebastian.michel@epﬂ.ch

Ingmar Weber

Ecole Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne

ingmar.weber@epﬂ.ch

ABSTRACT
We show how a number of novel email search features can be
implemented without any kind of natural language process-
ing (NLP) or advanced data mining. Our approach inspects
the email headers of all messages a user has ever sent or re-
ceived and it creates simple per-contact summaries, includ-
ing simple information about the message exchange history,
the domain of the sender or even the sender’s gender. With
these summaries advanced questions/tasks such as “Who do
I still need to reply to?” or “Find ‘fun’ messages sent by
friends.” become possible. As a proof of concept, we imple-
mented a Mozilla-Thunderbird extension, adding powerful
people search to the popular email client.

Categories and Subject Descriptors
H.3 [Information Storage and Retrieval]: H.3.1 Con-
tent Analysis and Indexing; H.3.3 Information Search and
Retrieval; H.3.4 Systems and Software

General Terms
Design, Human Factors

Keywords
email, inbox 2.0, email search, people search

1.

INTRODUCTION

The word “search” in the context of email usually refers
to content-based search for messages (or email threads) rel-
evant to a particular query. Although there has been work
on ﬁnding “experts” in an email corpus, no email service
or client we are aware of supports such useful queries/tasks
like:

sent me a message about a week ago?”

• “Who are the people I still need to reply to?”
• “What was the name of the male colleague, who ﬁrst
• “Which friends have I not written to for a long time?”
• “Sort all my contacts according to the number of mes-
• “Which email threads only involve friends?”
• “Which messages were sent by colleagues in the last

sages sent or received.”

week exclusively to me?”

Copyright is held by the author/owner(s).
WWW 2009, April 20–24, 2009, Madrid, Spain.
ACM 978-1-60558-487-4/09/04.

• “Find ‘fun’ messages sent by a friend.”

Our contributions are the following: We show which ad-
ditional useful information, besides the date and the names
and email addresses of the sender and recipients, can be eas-
ily and eﬃciently obtained from email headers for the pur-
pose of answering such questions. We explain how abstract
concepts can be approximately mapped to concrete queries
involving the derived information. Finally, we discuss how
our approach can be applied to create new ways to (i) search
for email messages, to (ii) ﬁlter email messages and to (iii)
improve content-based ranking schemes for email messages.
We have built a fully functional and freely available pro-
totype [5], in the form of a Thunderbird1 extension, which
oﬀers all the mentioned powerful people search capabilities.

2. RELATED WORK

There has been work on extracting social networks and
social features from email [3, 4]. Although it is also in the
scope of “people-centric email analysis”, it does not address
improved people or email search. Concerning people search
beyond the ordinary, the work on ﬁnding experts [1, 2], using
more involved data mining techniques, is also related. Still,
it fails to address any of the example questions given at the
beginning. Xobni [6] builds simple statistics for each user,
e.g., number of messages sent and received, which are used to
show the distribution of message exchanges over the time of
the day. It also gives for each person a list of related people,
based on co-occurrences of people in the list of recipients,
which can be easily integrated into our approach. However,
Xobni does not oﬀer any of our novel people or message
search capabilities.

3. EXTRACTING USEFUL INFORMATION
In this section we explain how even without any computa-
tionally expensive data mining techniques new and powerful
email search capabilities can be obtained by extracting use-
ful information from email headers.
3.1 Summaries from Email Headers

A single pass over all the email headers (both sent and re-
ceived) is used to build compact summaries for each person
that the user ever had any incoming or outgoing email com-
munication with. As of now, we treat each email address as
a person. In particular, we do not address the problem of
single persons using several addresses or a single email alias
being used by several people.
1http://www.mozilla.com/thunderbird/

WWW 2009 MADRID!Poster Sessions: Wednesday, April 22, 20091107The meta information for each email account, in particular
the speciﬁed “from” email address, is used to detect if a
certain message was sent to or from the user.
If the user
puts herself on CC, then she is assumed to be the sender
and she is removed from the list of recipients. In addition,
we also use the “from” email address provided to detect the
domain of a user whenever she does not use a free email
provider like gmail, yahoo, or hotmail. This is in particular
helpful since it allows for identifying colleagues, i.e., people
within the same domain, ignoring free email providers.

For each person we compute a proﬁle including the fol-
lowing data ﬁelds: the number of messages sent to/received
from, the date of the ﬁrst/last message sent to/received,
whether a free email provider is used (using a list of the most
common such services), whether emails are sent to a col-
league or not, and whether the last message sent to/received
had a single recipient. Similar ﬁelds such as the number of
people involved or if there are any attachments can be com-
puted at the same time for each email thread. All these ﬁelds
are easy to update incrementally, when new messages arrive.
In addition to these summaries which are directly generated
from the message headers, we use as an additional informa-
tion source a name directory that allows us to ﬁlter email
contacts based on the gender. Overall, it is suﬃcient to store
about a dozen ﬁelds for each person or email thread.
3.2 Mapping Concepts to Filters

Concepts such as “a person I need to reply to” can be
approximated fairly well by the following ﬁlter: (i) a person
with a non-free email provider (otherwise it is most probably
just a friend), (ii) where the last message was sent by the
person (otherwise I have replied already), (iii) with whom
I have had at least 1 full message exchange (otherwise the
person might just be a pseudo-account, to whom one cannot
even write).

Similarly, adequate approximations for concepts such as
“friend” or even “ex-boy/girl-friend” can be found. The same
approach also works for messages where, e.g., a “fun” mes-
sage was probably sent to various people, including several
with non-professional email addresses, and it contains an
attachment. Currently, our predeﬁned “translations” were
chosen manually but, given a labeled training set, they could
be tuned with standard machine learning techniques. Such
“translations” are only required for ease of use, as the aver-
age user cannot be expected to enter (and understand) the
corresponding low-level query, involving several data ﬁelds.

4. POWERFUL SEARCH FEATURES

In this section we explain how the extracted information
can be used to oﬀer new search features, both for people
search and for message search.
4.1 People Search

Standard people search capabilities only allow the user to
search for people (or rather their email address) by name.
If you do not know a person’s name or want to sort your
contacts by certain characteristics (number of messages sent
or received, gender, colleague, ...), then no system we are
aware of lets you to do this. Following the approach from
Section 3, we built a fully functional prototype [5], which
computes per-person proﬁles and supports queries on this
data.

4.2 Message Search

Standard email retrieval systems only rank the results ei-
ther by content-based (keyword) relevance or by meta infor-
mation such as the date of the message. The search scope
can be restricted by requiring a particular sender, but a user
cannot limit her search to messages sent by a colleague, sent
to more than 4 people, or sent by a female person. The
information discussed in Section 3 makes this possible. It
can be used as a “hard” search criterion, but it can also be
used diﬀerently: First, it can be used to allow the user to
sort the result messages (or all messages) according to the
ﬁelds, such as gender of the sender or the number of recip-
ients for a message. And second, it can be incorporated in
the ranking itself, e.g., giving a higher relevance score to
messages sent by a colleague or sent by someone, whom the
user communicates with on a regular basis.

5. CONCLUSIONS AND OUTLOOK

Our current approach uses only information derived from
email headers without requiring any full text analysis. Given
suﬃcient computational resources, the precision of approxi-
mations of concepts such as “a person I need to reply to” or
“a fun message” could be improved further by analyzing the
message body. For instance, if a message merely consists of
“Ok.” or “Thanks.” it does not necessitate a response and
if contains a link to a web site such as Youtube it is more
likely to be a “fun” message. As a ﬁrst step in this direction,
we plan to use the “subject” header to improve the detection
of friends, even among colleagues, as they are more likely to
send party invitations or to forward repeatedly forwarded
messages.

Given that email is clearly the current medium of commu-
nication, it is surprising how many “obvious” improvements
to the way we handle our email communication are possible.
Especially in the setting of a modern work environment, any
tool which can give even a small productivity gain or which
allows people to better understand their own email patterns,
should be expected to have a signiﬁcant impact. We hope
that we could contribute to this development by pointing
out promising directions for improvements.

6. REFERENCES
[1] K. Balog and M. de Rijke. Finding experts and their

eetails in e-mail corpora. In The 15th international
conference on World Wide Web (WWW), pages
1035–1036, 2006.

[2] C. S. Campbell, P. P. Maglio, A. Cozzi, and B. Dom.

Expertise identiﬁcation using email communications. In
The 12th international conference on Information and
knowledge management (CIKM), pages 528–531, 2003.

[3] A. Culotta, R. Bekkerman, and A. McCallum.

Extracting social networks and contact information
from email and the web. In The 1st Conference on
Email and Anti-Spam (CEAS), 2004.

[4] P. Kazienko and K. Musial. Mining personal social

features in the community of email users. In The 34th
Conference on Current Trends in Theory and Practice
of Computer Science (SOFSEM), pages 708–719, 2008.
[5] S. Michel and I. Weber. Eagleeye - reclaim your address

book, 2008. http://eagleeye.sourceforge.net.
[6] A. Smith and M. Brezina. Xobni - it’s inbox

backwards., 2007. http://www.xobni.com.

WWW 2009 MADRID!Poster Sessions: Wednesday, April 22, 20091108