 

Message from the Chair of IW3C2 

This green plot shall be our stage 

 
On behalf of the International World Wide Web Conference Committee (IW3C2), the steering committee 
for this conference series, I welcome you to the 19th conference of our series. As you already know, the 
World Wide Web was first conceived in 1989 by Tim Berners-Lee at CERN in Geneva, Switzerland. The 
first conference of the series, WWW1, was held at CERN in 1994 and organized by Robert Cailliau. The 
IW3C2 was founded by Joseph Hardin and Robert Cailliau later in 1994 and has been responsible for the 
conference  series  ever  since.  I  have  personally  been  lucky  enough  to  be  part  of  this  community  since 
WWW2, when I co-authored a poster. After 1994 and 1995 (when two conferences were held each year), 
WWWn became an annual event held in late April or early May.  

The location of the conference generally rotates among the Americas, Europe, and Asia/Pacific. In 2001 we 
changed  the  conference  designator  from  a  number  (1  through  10)  to  the  year  it  is  held;  i.e.,  WWW11 
became  known  as  WWW2002.  You  may  browse  our  website  http://www.iw3c2.org/  for  information  on 
past and future conferences. WWW2014 is now open for bids, preferably from a host in Asia/Pacific. We 
encourage you to point interested parties to the “Host a Conference” section of the IW3C2’s web site.  

The  International  WWW  Conference  series  provides  the  world  with  a  premier  forum  about  the 
development  of  the  Web,  the  standardization  of  its  associated  technologies,  and  the  Web’s  impact  on 
society and culture. These conferences bring together researchers, developers, users, and vendors – indeed 
all of you who are passionate about the Web and what it has to offer, now and in the future. Part of what is 
exciting  about  this  series  is  the  cross  boundary  and  eclectic  nature  of  the  topics  covered,  and  the 
opportunity it provides for exploration of new directions, both technological and social.  

We appreciate the cooperation of ACM which makes our conference the best in the Web area. We also 
wish to recognize our long-term associate, the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C). 

We are excited about the opportunity to bring the web community to Raleigh, North Carolina, to share the 
food,  sports,  and  culture  of  this  beautiful  city  with  all  of  you.  We  thank  NC  State  University  and  The 
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill who serve as our gracious hosts, and the general chairs Michael 
Rappa and Paul Jones, and local arrangements chair Kathy Green, for all their hard work. Let us all take 
this opportunity to learn new things in technology, in culture, and in business, from each other! 
 

Mary Ellen Zurko 
IBM Software Group 

 

