Discovering the Staring People From Social Networks

Dewei Chen

Department of Computer
Science and Technology

Tsinghua University

Beijing, China

hua.edu.cn

chendw@keg.cs.tsing-

jietang@tsinghua.edu.cn

Jie Tang

Department of Computer
Science and Technology

Tsinghua University

Beijing, China

Juanzi Li, Lizhu Zhou
Department of Computer
Science and Technology

Tsinghua University

Beijing, China

ljz@keg.cs.tsinghua.edu.cn
ndcszlz@tsinghua.edu.cn

ABSTRACT
In this paper, we study a novel problem of staring people dis-
covery from social networks, which is concerned with ﬁnding
people who are not only authoritative but also sociable in the
social network. We formalize this problem as an optimiza-
tion programming problem. Taking the co-author network
as a case study, we deﬁne three objective functions and pro-
pose two methods to combine these objective functions. A
genetic algorithm based method is further presented to solve
this problem. Experimental results show that the proposed
solution can eﬀectively ﬁnd the staring people from social
networks.

Categories and Subject Descriptors
I.2 [Computing Methodologies]: Artiﬁcial Intelligence;
I.2.6 [Artiﬁcial Intelligence]: Learning

General Terms
Algorithms, Experimentation

Keywords
Social network, Staring people discovery

1.

INTRODUCTION

With the ﬂourish of the Web 2.0 applications, people are
getting more and more interactive and sociable. Finding
people with high authority and sociality, referred to as star-
ing people discover, is very important. Previously, this prob-
lem has been separately studied. For example, expert ﬁnd-
ing [1] tries to discover experts on a given query. While
staring people discovery aims to ﬁnd the persons with not
only extensive knowledge but also strong social links.

In this paper, we formally deﬁne the problem of staring
people discovery and propose a novel method to solve this
problem. Given the information of a set of persons, our
method extract a sub set of these persons which can rep-
resent the main information of both the persons and the
relationships between them. We call the extracted persons
as staring people. The problem of staring people discovery
is relevant to, but diﬀerent from, graph summarization [4],
where the goal is to generate an abstractive representation
of the graph data.

Copyright is held by the author/owner(s).
WWW 2009, April 20–24, 2009, Madrid, Spain.
ACM 978-1-60558-487-4/09/04.

2. STARING PEOPLE DISCOVERY

Generally, the social network can be modeled as a graph[2],
in which the vertices indicate persons and the edges indicate
the relationships between vertices. In this paper, we take the
co-author graph as an example. In a co-author graph, each
vertex indicates an author, and each undirected edge indi-
cates two authors collaborated on some papers. The goal of
discovery the “staring authors” is to identify the authors who
are the reliable and active researchers in some domain. That
means they should have published many papers and collabo-
rated with many other researchers as well. Given a domain,
we use the number of publications in this domain and the
number of all publications as the proﬁle of an author. And
use the co-author times as the weight of the edge. Figure 1
shows an example of a graph in “Data Mining” domain and
the staring authors discovered. The circle nodes indicate the
authors and only the red(dark) nodes are staring authors.
The ﬁrst number bound with the author is the number of
publication about “Data Mining” and the second is the num-
ber of all publications. Table 1 lists some notations used in
this paper.

Figure 1: A co-author graph and discovery result.

G(V, E)
vi ∈ V
ei,j∈E

ni
ti
ci,j
Di,j

α

Table 1: Notations

a graph constructed by vertices V and edges E
the i-th author
the edge between author vi and author vj
the number of the author vi’s publications in domain
the number of all publications of author vi
the co-author times of author vi and author vj
the nearest distance of author vi and vj (in spite of c)
the ratio of staring authors to all authors

xi ∈ {0, 1} whether author vi is a staring author.

WWW 2009 MADRID!Poster Sessions: Friday, April 24, 20091219By investigating the staring author discovery problem, we

ﬁnd that the following rules must be obeyed:

1. The number of selected staring authors should be as close
to a predeﬁned expectation as possible. The expectation
can be either a ﬁxed number or a ratio of string authors
to all authors. In this paper, we use the second one and
denote it as α.

2. The normal authors should be known by staring authors.
Thus, The nearest distance between the normal authors
and the staring authors should be as low as possible.

3. All authors must be treated equally during the discovery

process.

(a) If ni > nj, then author vi should be selected as a

staring author ﬁrst.

(b) If ni = nj and ci > cj, then author vi should be

selected as a staring author ﬁrst.

(c) when xi = 1 thus author vi is a staring author, if
ci,j > ci,k, then author vj should be selected as a
staring author ﬁrst.

The staring author discovery problem can be formalized as

3. OUR APPROACH
a programming problem which ﬁnd a bitwise vector (x1, x2, ··· )
best matching the previous rules. We can deﬁne a objective
function for each rule, and then ﬁnd the solution which op-
timizes the objective functions. The objective functions are:

(cid:2)
(cid:3)

10|(cid:3)
xi=0 minj(cid:2)=i and xj =1 (Di,j − 1)

i xi − α(cid:2)V (cid:2)|
α(cid:2)V (cid:2)
(cid:3)
(cid:4)
i [xi = 0]
[xi = xk = 1 (cid:3)= xj, ci,j > ci,k]+

min f1(x1, x2, ··· ) =

min f2(xi, x2, ··· ) =
min f3(xi, x2, ··· ) = (1 − β)
(cid:4)

i(cid:2)=j(cid:2)=k

β

[ni > nj, xi = 0 (cid:3)= xj] + [ni = nj, ci > cj, xi = 0 (cid:3)= xj]

i(cid:2)=j
where [true] = 1 and [f alse] = 0 and β ∈ [0, 1].

Note that the objective functions are hard to be optimized
simultaneously. We can either use multi-objective program-
ming method or multilevel programming method to break
this limitation. For multi-objective programming (MOP)[3],
the objective functions are combined into a criterion func-
tion using the weighted sum method. And then, we aim to
optimize the new criterion function. This solution can be

formalized as: ⎧⎪⎪⎪⎪⎨
⎪⎪⎪⎪⎩

3(cid:4)

min

i=1

λifi(x1, x2,·· · )

s.t.

xi ∈ {0, 1}, i = 1, 2, ··· , (cid:2)V (cid:2)

The weight parameters λi can be set empirically or esti-
mated by minimizing the error on a set of training data.

For multilevel programming (MLP)[3], we assume that the
objective functions have diﬀerent priorities. Thus, we can
optimize the objective functions one by one according to the
priorities. The MLP solution can be formalized as:

⎧⎪⎪⎪⎪⎪⎪⎪⎪⎪⎪⎪⎨
⎪⎪⎪⎪⎪⎪⎪⎪⎪⎪⎪⎩

min f1(x1, x2, ··· )

min f3(x1, x2,·· · )

s.t.⎧⎪⎪⎪⎪⎪⎪⎨
s.t.⎧⎪⎨
⎪⎪⎪⎪⎪⎪⎩
⎪⎩ min f2(x1, x2,· ·· )

s.t.

xi ∈ {0, 1}, i = 1, 2, ·· · ,(cid:2)V (cid:2)

Both MOP and MLP solutions are diﬃcult to solve pre-
cisely. We propose to use the genetic algorithm to cal-
culate the approximate results.
In the genetic algorithm,
the bitwise encoding method is used to encode a solution
x = (x1, x2,· ·· ).

4. EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS

To evaluate our proposed methods, we generated 308 graphs

according to the papers published from 2003 to 2008 in
SIGKDD, SIGMOD, VLDB, etc. And three Ph.D. students
annotated the staring authors in these graphs. The anno-
tation results were combined by the voting method. Then,
the combined result were used as the benchmark. Some of
the them are publicly available. 1 And we use precision and
recall to evaluate the discovery results.

We implemented the proposed method and conducted ex-
periments on the 308 graphs. 50 of them were randomly
selected as the training data. And the parameters β and λi
were tuned on the training graphs. Then, with these pa-
rameters, we evaluated both MOP and MLP solutions on
the other 258 graphs. The evaluation results are listed in
table 2.

Method

MOP
MLP

Table 2: Experimental results

Precision

Recall

Max Min
.6312
.9180
.9576
.7471

Average Max Min
.7615
.8407

.8731
.9137

.8391
.8931

Average

.8032
.8661

5. CONCLUSION

We investigate the problem of ﬁnding the most authori-
tative and sociable persons in social networks in this paper.
More speciﬁcally, we use the co-author network as an ex-
ample, and formalize this problem as two types of goal op-
timization programming problems. And we propose using
the genetic algorithm to solve them. Experimental results
indicate that our solution can properly identify the most
representative and well-known authors out of the co-author
network.

Please mention that the proposed solution is quite general.
It can be applied to many other applications besides staring
author discovery, such as staring blogger discovery, excellent
survey paper discovery.

6. REFERENCES
[1] K. Balog, L. Azzopardi, and M. de Rijke. Formal
models for expert ﬁnding in enterprise corpora. In
Proceedings of SIGIR’06, pages 43–50, 2006.

[2] Y. Lin, Y. Chi, S. Zhu, H. Sundaram, and B. L. Tseng.

Facetnet: a framework for analyzing communities and
their evolutions in dynamic networks. In Proceedings of
WWW’08, pages 685–694, September 2008.

[3] B. Liu. Theory and Practice of Uncertain Programming.

Springer-Verlag, Berlin, 2009.

[4] S. Navlakha, R. Rastogi, and N. Shrivastava. Graph
summarization with bounded error. In Proceedings of
SIGMOD’08, pages 419–432, 2008.

1

http://www.arnetminer.org/graph/review2.jsp

WWW 2009 MADRID!Poster Sessions: Friday, April 24, 20091220