Message from the General Chairs 

researchers, 

The WWW Conference series aims to provide the world a premier forum for 
discussion and debate about the evolution of the Web, the standardization of 
its associated technologies, and the impact of those technologies on society 
and culture. The World Wide Web Conference is the global event that brings 
together  key 
technologists, 
businesses, and standards bodies working to shape the Web – indeed all who 
are passionate about the Web and what it has to offer. The conferences are 
organized  by  the  International  World  Wide  Web  Conferences  Steering 
Committee (IW3C2) in collaboration with Local Organizing Committees and 
Technical Program Committees. The series provides an open forum in which 
all opinions can be presented, subject to a strict process of peer review. 

innovators,  decision-makers, 

We  cordially  invite  you  to  the  20th  International  World  Wide  Web  Conference  being  held  in  Hyderabad, 
India.    As  in  the  past,  we  expect  it  to  serve  as  the  premier  venue  for  academics  and  industry  to  present, 
demonstrate,  and  discuss  the  latest  ideas  about  the  Web,  its  infrastructure,  relevant  algorithms  and  new 
innovative  applications.  It  should  provide  an  opportunity  for  the  international  community  to  discuss  and 
debate the state and the evolution of the Web. 

Held for the first time in India, this edition of the WWW conference focuses on new developments in the 
principles and practices related to the WWW. The technical program for the five-day conference will include 
refereed paper presentations, plenary sessions, panels, poster, and demo sessions. The WWW2011 program 
also includes Tutorials and Workshops, a W3C track, a Developers track, a PhD Symposium, and Exhibitions. 
The PhD Symposium is part of the schedule for the WWW conference series for the first time and provides an 
excellent platform for the new as well as senior PhD students for presenting their ideas and receiving feedback 
on their work from other PhD Students and experienced researchers working in related areas.  

The "Web for Emerging Regions" track in WWW 2011 focuses on significant research aimed at extending the 
Web to emerging regions. Information access continues to remain extremely poor in many emerging regions 
due to a wide  range of factors including poor or intermittent network connectivity,  cost factors, reliability 
challenges, lack of appropriate end-devices, lack of locally relevant content, language and literacy problems, 
user interface problems.  We are hence pleased to include this track as part of this edition of WWW. 

We thank the invited speakers, authors, the tutorial speakers, the speakers from industry and academia, the 
organizing committee, the program committee, and our local hosts for making WWW2011 a grand success. 
Our sponsors deserve a special thanks for their generous contributions that helped us host WWW2011 in a 
world-class atmosphere. 
 

 

 
 

 
 

S. Sadagopan   
IIIT Bangalore 
 
General Chair                                                                   Associate General Chair 

Arun Kumar 
IBM Research-India 

 
 

Krithi Ramamritham 
IIT Bombay 
General Chair 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
               Associate General Chair 

M.P. Ravindra 
Infosys E & R 

