Behavioral Proﬁles for Advanced Email Features

Thomas Karagiannis and Milan Vojnovi´c

Microsoft Research Cambridge, UK
{thomkar,milanv}@microsoft.com

ABSTRACT
We examine the behavioral patterns of email usage in a
large-scale enterprise over a three-month period. In partic-
ular, we focus on two main questions: (Q1) what do replies
depend on? and (Q2) what is the gain of augmenting con-
tacts through the friends of friends from the email social
graph? For Q1, we identify and evaluate the signiﬁcance
of several factors that aﬀect the reply probability and the
email response time. We ﬁnd that all factors of our con-
sidered set are signiﬁcant, provide their relative ordering,
and identify the recipient list size, and the intensity of email
communication between the correspondents as the dominant
factors. We highlight various novel threshold behaviors and
provide support for existing hypotheses such as that of the
least-eﬀort reply. For Q2, we ﬁnd that the number of new
contacts extracted from the friends-of-friends relationships
amounts to a large number, but which is still a limited por-
tion of the total enterprise size. We believe that our results
provide signiﬁcant insights towards informed design of ad-
vanced email features, including those of social-networking
type.

Categories & Subject Descriptors: H.4.3 [Communica-
tions Applications]: Electronic mail
General Terms: Design, Measurement, Human Factors
Keywords: Reply time, reply probability, email proﬁles.

1.

INTRODUCTION

The proliferation of social computing services has recently
sparked an interest for enhancing the email service with fea-
tures common in social network applications [5]. Such in-
tegration, however, requires a comprehensive understanding
of the intrinsic usage characteristics of the email service, and
in particular, of the user behavior and how this translates
to information ﬂows through email networks. This under-
standing is thus important in order to (i) guide the design
of new features for the service overall but also at the email
client side, and (ii) to potentially leverage the social network
induced by email communications for other online services.
This paper is a step towards this direction. Speciﬁcally, we
present results of an extensive study of “behavioral” proﬁles
that characterize users, their actions in processing emails,
and properties of the exchanged emails. By behavioral we
refer to characteristics that describe interactions of corre-
Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Com-
mittee (IW3C2). Distribution of these papers is limited to classroom use,
and personal use by others.
WWW 2009, April 20–24, 2009, Madrid, Spain.
ACM 978-1-60558-487-4/09/04.

spondents and properties that reveal speciﬁc human behav-
iors. Our goal is to investigate to what extent these proﬁles
may inform the design of advanced email features such as
email prioritization, recommendation and ﬁltering mecha-
nisms, or expert ﬁnding and people search by exploiting the
email social graph.

Our study is based on the analysis of emails exchanged
in a large-scale, multinational corporation with more than
100,000 employees spread across several countries. The mea-
surement trace covers the email communications of all em-
ployees for a period of three months amounting to roughly
315 Million sent emails (Section 2.1). To examine user rela-
tionships and how these aﬀect the overall information ﬂow,
we also leverage side information such as the global enter-
prise organizational structure.

Overall, our study is predominantly driven by exploring
design possibilities focusing on two main questions that we
feel are of particular relevance to enterprise environments:

Q1: What do replies depend on? Can we predict the email
response time (Section 3.1), and which emails will be
replied (Section 3.2)?

and

Q2: What is the gain if contact lists are augmented with
contacts derived from “friends-of-friends” relationships
of the email social graph (Section 4)?

With regards to Q1, we determined that the email re-
ply probability depends on a set of factors related both to
the correspondents (i.e., sender and receiver), but also to
their interactions. Of these factors, the recipient list size
appears to be the most important, followed by the rate of
emails between the receiver and the sender, the organiza-
tional distance between the correspondents, and the elapsed
time since the last email activity of the receiver. Through
analysis of variance we show that while conditioning on one
of these factors provides moderate prediction gains, combin-
ing factors provides signiﬁcant gains with respect to predict-
ing replied emails.

Replies constitute only a small portion of sent emails, sur-
prisingly, as little as 3% on average. Furthermore, we note
the signiﬁcance of recency and in general the eﬀect of the
receive time, and time-of-day periodicity on the reply prob-
ability and the time it takes for a user to reply to a received
email. These ﬁndings suggest that from a sender point of
view, it does matter when an email is sent, not only to re-
ceive a prompt reply, but also to receive a reply in the ﬁrst
place. The signiﬁcance of the recency factor conﬁrms claims

WWW 2009 MADRID!Track: Social Networks and Web 2.0 / Session: Diffusion and Search in Social Networks711based on survey results [10] that users tend to largely priori-
tize emails with respect to recency. However, it is surprising
to observe the rather dramatic decrease of the probability
of reply with the inactivity period of the receiver over the
timescale of one hour. Finally, we identify a “congestion col-
lapse” type of dependence of the probability of reply on both
the rate of emails from the receiver to sender and from the
sender to receiver. The probability of reply tends to increase
with sender-to-receiver email volume up to a threshold; how-
ever, after this threshold, there is a qualitative change with
a tendency to smaller values.

With regards to Q2, we highlight that the number of new
contacts discovered through friends-of-friends types of rela-
tionships in the email graph exhibits diminishing returns for
users with large contact lists. However, we found that typi-
cal contact lists comprise tens of contacts, facilitating discov-
ery of order thousands of new contacts through friends-of-
friends. This number appears signiﬁcant and implies that
advanced search and ﬁltering mechanisms would need to
complement such a feature to allow the user to take advan-
tage of the augmented contact list. On the other hand, con-
tacts discovered through friends-of-friends are at the same
time limited, when we take into consideration that a con-
tact list of order thousand corresponds to 1% of the total
enterprise graph. This suggests that services such as expert
ﬁnding or people search will have to examine contacts that
are further than two hops away.

We believe that our ﬁndings provide insightful observa-
tions for application designers with respect to human inter-
actions and behavior as seen through the email service. To
the best of our knowledge, our work is among the ﬁrst to
study in large-scale the importance of such behavioral pat-
terns.

2. COMMUNICATION PROFILES

We ﬁrst examine the variety of communication proﬁles
across users. As large-scale enterprises are characterized
by employee heterogeneity, we explore to what extent email
communications reﬂect this diversity. In particular, in the
following subsections we describe our datasets, and examine
properties such as the information load imposed on users,
and the number of correspondents per user.
2.1 Datasets

The results presented in this paper are based on logs
from Microsoft Exchange servers that cover email commu-
nications for all employees of a large multinational corpo-
ration for 3 months. This global enterprise consists of over
100,000 employees spread across 100 countries and 6 conti-
nents. During the three month period we observe a total
of 315 Million emails. Each log entry speciﬁes the sender
and recipients per email, the subject, the sent timestamp,
the size of the email in bytes, and other information such
as the exchange servers involved, email ids etc. Hence, this
information allows us to examine both internal (within the
enterprise) and external communications for each enterprise
user over time. By the information presented in the email
subject, we can additionally separate emails that constitute
replied (RE) or forwarded (FW) emails. Note that SPAM
emails are rare in our datasets, as SPAM ﬁlters operate be-
fore the Exchange Servers that provided the logs for this
study; typically only a few (less than ten) SPAM emails are
observed per user per month. With regards to mailing lists,

Figure 1: CDFs of sent and received emails per user
per day. The ratio of receive-to-sent emails is ap-
proximately 7.

emails to such aliases were expanded to include all recip-
ients of each such email. We do not exclude these emails
from the analysis, since we are interested in the overall in-
formation load a user experiences. Examining whether the
various properties of email replies diﬀer between mailing list
items and other emails is left for future work.

We further relate information ﬂow and user behavior to
the organizational structure of the enterprise. To this end,
our org-structure dataset provides us with information re-
garding the names and email aliases of all employees, their
physical location and distribution to buildings and oﬃces
across countries, and their organizational title. Using this
information we are able to extract the organizational tree
of the enterprise (henceforth referred to as “org-tree”) and
identify “report-to” relationships for each user (i.e., identify
each user’s manager and direct reports). We use the term
“root-distance” to denote the length of the shortest-path of
an employee to the root of the organizational tree. Similarly,
we use the term “level-distance” between two employees to
refer to the diﬀerence between the length of the shortest-
paths (i.e., root-distances) of each of the two employees to
the root of the organizational tree (CEO of the enterprise).
2.2 Basic Properties

In order to examine the email information load generated
by and imposed on users, we consider the email volume per
user for the three months of our study. We ﬁnd that the me-
dian number of emails sent per user per day is approximately
8 with 10% and 90% quantiles of 0.5 and 24 emails per day
respectively. For the received emails the corresponding num-
bers amount to 57, 6, and 252 (median and quantiles respec-
tively). We ﬁnd that one-third of users receive less than 34
emails per day, another one-third of users receive between
34 and 95 emails per day, and the remaining third more than
95 emails per day. In a survey conducted by Neustadter et
al [10], 29% of participants reported to receive less than 50
emails per day (low-volume), 36% reported to receive in be-
tween 50 and 100 emails per day (medium-volume), and the
remaining 34% of users reported to receive more than 100
users a day (high-volume). In contrast, we ﬁnd that almost
half of users qualify as low volume users – 45.25% of users
receive less than 50 emails per day. We also ﬁnd a larger
portion of high-volume users than medium-volume – 31%
vs. 23.75%.

WWW 2009 MADRID!Track: Social Networks and Web 2.0 / Session: Diffusion and Search in Social Networks712Further analyzing the sent emails per day, we ﬁnd that
roughly 2 out of the sent emails per day correspond to
replies, while forwarded emails amount to just 0.2 emails per
day. We will extensively discuss replied emails in Section 3.
Fig. 1 displays the corresponding Cumulative Distribution
Functions (CDF) for the number of sent and received emails
per user per day. The mean numbers of received and sent
emails per day per user are 107 and 11 respectively. Overall,
the median ratio of received-to-sent emails is approximately
7, which we have found to be consistent both with the mean
recipient list size, and the minimum organizational group
size when considering leaf nodes in the organizational tree
(i.e., groups of users reporting to the same manager).

The number of correspondents per user is another basic
property of email communications. This property also re-
lates to the “notion” of degree when forming the “social”
graph that results from such communications. Consider-
ing only interactions across enterprise users, the median
out-degree (i.e., reﬂecting correspondents of sent emails) is
roughly 190 for a period of three months with 10% and 90%
quantiles of 13 and 2260. Similarly, the in-degree median is
291, with quantiles of 8 and 1960. High degrees here indicate
participation in email distribution lists. As previous studies
have also noted [13], applying thresholds on the formation
of edges of such an email social graph (i.e., removing edges
based on the number of emails sent across two correspon-
dents) can ﬁlter out transient or rare communications that
do not reveal “true” communication relationships between
users. For example, applying a threshold of 15 emails (i.e.,
removing edges that correspond roughly to less than one
email per week) results in median in-degree of 34 (quantiles
of 5 and 183) and out-degree of 21 (quantiles of 3 and 108).
In Section 4, we will further explore the potential gains of
taking advantage of this enterprise social graph to expand
user contact lists.

To investigate the eﬀect of “strong-ties” [13] in the email
graph on the generated email ﬂow, we characterize the top-
k correspondents per user based on the frequency of email
communications (edge weights). This property essentially
describes the “favorite” correspondents per user. Addition-
ally, this metric informs the design of both network applica-
tions and devices, e.g., by examining the possibility of dis-
playing the favorite correspondents of a user in the limited
screen of a mobile device.

Fig. 2 highlights the portion of user-initiated email com-
munications (i.e., sent emails) covered by the top-k corre-
spondents of a particular user. Fig. 2 shows that roughly half
of the users’ conversations are covered through the set of the
top-6 correspondents (2 and 15 for the 25% and 75% quan-
tiles respectively) for half of the user population. Increasing
this number to top-10 correspondents covers more than 60%
of emails sent. These observations provide important clues
for the dimensioning of contact list sizes. Achieving large hit
rates, e.g., larger than 50%, requires contact lists of order
10 users. As previously mentioned, small contact lists are
especially attractive for mobile devices.

Information ﬂow vs. org levels. As previously discussed,
the small number of correspondents per user is consistent
with the average group size for the leaves of the organi-
zational tree.
It is thus natural to examine whether the
imposed organizational structure inﬂuences email communi-
cations between employees, and how this inﬂuence manifests
in the email network.

Figure 2: Email sends covered by top-k correspon-
dents. Top-5 correspondents cover more than 40%
sent emails for half of the user population.

Figure 3: Email ﬂow vs. level-distance between the
sender and the receiver. The ﬂow is symmetric and
decreases exponentially with the level-distance.

We observe that the rate of email ﬂow decreases exponen-
tially with the level-distance between the correspondents.
Fig 3 displays the number of emails sent versus the level-
distance (note that levels increase as we move away for the
root). The ﬂow is symmetrical with respect to the organi-
zational levels of the correspondents. To examine whether
this symmetry is the result of responses to original emails,
we condition on “fresh” emails only, where we exclude all
replies. Even after removing replies, the symmetry is still
present in the ﬂow communications. Further, the peak of
the plot suggests high inter-level communication. This is
conﬁrmed by examining intra-level and inter-level commu-
nications, where only a minor asymmetry exists with users
of larger root-distances directing more ﬂow upwards, com-
pared to the ﬂow users closer to the root send downwards.

3. WHAT DO REPLIES DEPEND ON?
We now turn our attention to replied emails. We examine
factors that may determine user’s action with respect to a
received email, and speciﬁcally, here, replies to emails. In
particular, we study the eﬀect of several metrics on the (i)
reply time, i.e., how much time it takes a user to reply to a
received email, and ii) the reply probability, i.e., the probabil-

WWW 2009 MADRID!Track: Social Networks and Web 2.0 / Session: Diffusion and Search in Social Networks713Figure 4: Reply rate per user. 25% of users reply
to less than 1% of their received emails, with only
15% of users replying to more than 10%.

ity that a received email will be replied. Since the content of
the emails is not available, our analysis will focus mostly on
factors that characterize correspondents, their status within
the enterprise, and their interactions over time. Determining
such metrics that aﬀect email replies may inform the design
of email prioritization or ﬁltering mechanisms, simplifying
the email processing for enterprise users. Our analysis in
this section will focus on a random sample of 12,000 users
(roughly 10% of all users) for the period of three months. 1
3.1 Reply Time

As discussed in Section 2.2, only a small portion of re-
ceived emails are actually replied. In this section, we char-
acterize reply time for all emails that were replied. By reply
time, we refer to the time diﬀerence between the receive time
of an email, and the time of the corresponding reply. We ex-
amine the following factors: (i) The email triage referring to
prioritization strategies employed by users in handling of
the emails, i.e., the order in which emails are processed. For
our purposes, processing of an email refers to an email be-
ing replied or forwarded as we cannot observe other actions
(e.g., deletions) from our data; (ii) The time required to pro-
cess an email – for example, comprising the time to read the
email and prepare the reply; (iii) The user idle time, e.g.,
the time of day eﬀects; and, ﬁnally, (iv) under other factors,
we consider the reply time versus the in-ﬂow rate of emails
for the receiver.

Before examining individual factors, we ﬁrst consider the
rate of email replies across users. In Fig. 4, we display the
reply rate per user in decreasing order of the rate. Note that
the median reply rate is roughly 3% with only 15% of users
showing a reply rate larger than 10%, and 25% of users
having a reply rate less than 1%. Small reply rates could
also reﬂect the eﬀect of distribution lists or announcement
messages that are broadcasted and rarely replied and are
common in enterprises.

3.1.1 Email Triage Strategies
Email processing strategies employed by users determine
the order by which emails are processed or replied, and thus

1This sampling was necessary for data processing purposes
due to the magnitude of our traces. The results presented
here are qualitatively similar when taking multiple samples,
and samples of various sizes from our logs.

Figure 5: CDF of the queue position of replied
emails.
“ALL” refers additionally to forwarded
emails.

can provide hints with regard to the expected reply time.
Understanding email processing strategies is also important
for the design of personalized email client applications.

To infer reply strategies, we apply the following proce-
dure. We form a queue per each distinct user, storing re-
ceived emails. Most recent items (emails) are placed at the
ﬁrst position (head) of the queue. Items are departing from
the queue if we observe a reply (“RE”) email sent from the
speciﬁc user with a subject that matches existing items in
the queue (excluding the “RE” characters – also excluding
automatic “Out-of-oﬃce” replies), and the sender of the orig-
inal email is included in the reply recipient list. Thus, items
may depart from the queue at any order. Due to the size
of the dataset and memory limitations, we had to restrict
the queue size to 400 emails. When the queue is full, the
oldest item in the queue is removed (thus creating a small
bias in the results for emails that may have been processed
after being removed from the queue).

We consider the recency ranks (queue positions) of replied
emails – Fig. 5. The ﬁgure presents the histogram of queue
positions for replied items and indicates high bias of pro-
cessed items towards recently received emails. The ﬁgure
also presents a similar curve (“ALL”) for all processed items
in the queue (i.e., after applying a similar procedure for for-
warded emails). In particular, the median recency rank of
an email reply is only about 10 with the 90% quantile being
at roughly 200 emails. This recency bias could be the result
of several reasons. For example, users may bias their email
views so that recent emails appear higher in the list of re-
ceived emails; additionally, most users may process emails
in a timely manner so typically emails get processed while
they are still high ranked with respect to their recency.

Reply time depends signiﬁcantly on the recency rank of
the email (Fig. 6). The ﬁgure indicates that the median
email reply time is about 1 day for the emails of recency rank
up to 150. Overall, Fig. 6 implies that email reply times vary
rather widely, with reply times exploding as email items are
pushed towards the tail of the queue.

In summary, we found indications that email triage strate-
gies employed by the users prioritize recently received emails.
This is in line with previously reported results of surveys [10].
The previous discussion implies that recency is a signiﬁ-
cant factor on the processing order of emails. Being in an
enterprise environment, however, it would be perhaps nat-

WWW 2009 MADRID!Track: Social Networks and Web 2.0 / Session: Diffusion and Search in Social Networks714Figure 6: Queue position vs. reply time of replied
emails. Reply times signiﬁcantly increase as the
emails are pushed to the tail of the queue.

Figure 7: Email reply time versus level-distance of
correspondents. Squares denote the median values
while the stars ones the 90% percentile.

ural to assume that users would reply faster to emails orig-
inating from individuals with higher organizational status
(e.g., an employee responding to a manager higher up in the
organizational hierarchy). We ﬁnd that this assumption is
not supported by our data.

To test this hypothesis, we evaluate whether correlation
exists between reply time and the level-distance between the
sender and the receiver. Fig. 7 presents a scatter plot of the
level-distance versus the reply time in hours, along with me-
dian, and the 10% and 90% quantile values. We observe that
the median email reply time (denoted by the stars in Fig. 7)
does not signiﬁcantly depend on the level-distance between
the email correspondents. In fact, the range of email reply
times appears to tend to be larger, the smaller the absolute
level-distance between the email correspondents is.

3.1.2 Email Processing Time
The second factor that may impact reply time relates to
the time required to process a received email. This process-
ing time may relate to the time required to (i) read the email,
and (ii) prepare its reply. In our case, the email processing
time might be reﬂected by the size of the received email.

Fig. 8 presents this relationship of email size and reply
time as seen in our data. Clearly, the ﬁgure presents a strong
dependency, with the reply time increasing as the email size
becomes larger. In particular, emails larger than 1 Mbyte,
most likely containing attachments, take more than 6 hours
to reply to, while on the other end, small emails are replied

Figure 8: Reply time versus email size. Larger
emails result to higher reply times.

within an hour. This conﬁrms the suggested hypothesis [10]
that users would tend to follow the least-eﬀort principle in
processing of the emails.
3.1.3 Time-of-Day
While we expect the processing time to exhibit some diur-
nal and weekly periodicities, it is not clear what exact shape
such periodicities would assume and what values would hold
during work hours and weekend days, in particular. Indeed,
Fig. 9–left shows a strong weekly periodicity with reply times
being considerably larger for emails sent at the end of a work
week or weekend days. Over weekdays, the email reply times
vary naturally over the range from less than 1 hour to order
half a day. Perhaps more interestingly, we note that dur-
ing work hours, the median email reply time appears rather
concentrated around a value smaller than 1 hour. This sug-
gests that employees may use the email service for instant-
messenger-like interactions where delays of a few minutes are
acceptable (e.g., we identiﬁed several such cases with emails
related to eliciting participation to a group lunch). This is
further conﬁrmed by Fig. 9–right, which presents the CDF
of the reply time for all replied emails. Fig. 9–right high-
lights that the reply time for 20% of replied emails is less
than 5 minutes. Overall, combining the time-of-day obser-
vations with the recency processing bias implies that emails
have a higher probability of being replied to at the beginning
or during the working hours.
3.1.4 Other Factors
The size of the queue relates to the information load im-
posed on the user, where large queues might lead to “in-
formation overload” eﬀects and increased reply times. We
study the relationship between the overall received emails
and the reply time. Interestingly, Fig 10 highlights that the
larger the receive rate the smaller the reply time for users
that receive a large number of emails per day (for example,
more than 30 emails per day). There are at least two possible
explanations for such an eﬀect. First, email is a signiﬁcant
portion of the work activity for some users requiring timely
replies. Indeed, examining the roles of users with high re-
ceive rates and small reply times reveals that a signiﬁcant
portion corresponds to management roles. Second, this ef-
fect could be attributed to users engaging in conversations
through email, forming a sequence of received and replied
emails within short time intervals.

Summarizing the discussion in this section, we ﬁnd that
reply time depends strongly on time of the day eﬀects, as

WWW 2009 MADRID!Track: Social Networks and Web 2.0 / Session: Diffusion and Search in Social Networks715Figure 9: LEFT: Median email reply time versus time of day at which the email was received. The ﬁgure on
the middle is a zoomed version of the one on the left. RIGHT: CDF of email reply time. The reply time for
20% of replied emails is less than 5 minutes.

Figure 10: Reply time vs. the information load as
seen by the number of received emails per day. For
large receive rates, reply times decrease.

Figure 11: Probability of reply conditional on the
number of recipients.

well as the recency of the email received. Reply times in-
crease with the size but appear to decrease with the informa-
tion load for large receive rates. Finally, despite examining
an enterprise environment, org structure does not appear to
directly impact the reply time.
3.2 Reply Probability

In this section, we analyze the inﬂuence of several factors
on the probability of reply to an email. Our analysis aims
at identifying which factors can best predict the probabil-
ity of reply to an email. To this end, we ﬁrst perform a
visual exploration of the probability of reply conditional on
each of the factors. This study already suggests qualitative
dependencies. We further conduct quantitative analysis of
variance to evaluate the quality of predictions of individ-
ual factors and their combinations. This factorial analysis
is motivated by the possibility of a “reply-to” recommenda-
tion functionality that would assist users in the email triage
process. In particular, we consider the following factors:

1. Recipient list size;
2. The number of emails sent from the receiver to the

sender;

3. Org distance between receiver and sender measured
as the maximum hop distance until the ﬁrst common
ancestor node in the org tree; we refer to this distance
metric as “ancestor-distance”.

4. Time elapsed since the last observed email activity of

the receiver;

5. The number of emails sent from the sender to the re-

ceiver;

6. Org level of the sender (root-distance);

7. Email size in Bytes.

In addition, we also considered other factors including the
identities of senders and receivers. While the above is a non-
exhaustive list of factors that may inﬂuence the probability
of a reply, we believe the set captures a wide-range of factors.
For example, factor 6 proﬁles the sender; factor 4 proﬁles the
receiver; the remaining factors proﬁle a sender-receiver pair
(i.e., edge in the email graph). Additionally, some factors
capture the status of correspondents (e.g., org level) and the
level of interaction (e.g., the rate of emails sent between the
correspondents).

In the following paragraphs, we analyze factors 1 to 7 and
present results that suggest that all factors are signiﬁcant in
the descending order of appearance in the above list.

3.2.1 Recipient List Size
The conditional probability of reply tends to decrease with
the number of recipients of an email. Fig. 11 presents this
conditional probability showing the points with the 95%-
conﬁdence intervals less than or equal to 0.01 (i.e., small
variance). The probability of reply rapidly decreases with
the number of recipients; for example, for emails with 3 re-
cipients the probability drops to about a half compared to
emails with 1 recipient; further, for 20 recipients, we have an
order of magnitude decrease. We also observe some notice-
able spikes for order 1000 recipients which likely correspond
to replies to email lists.

WWW 2009 MADRID!Track: Social Networks and Web 2.0 / Session: Diffusion and Search in Social Networks716Figure 12: Probability of reply conditional on the
number of emails from receiver to sender.

Figure 14: Probability of reply conditional on the
time elapsed since the receiver was last active.

lationships (i.e., one of the correspondents reporting to the
other), we set the ancestor-distance to 0. For example, two
employees are at ancestor-distance 1 if they report to the
same manager. Fig. 13 reveals roughly a probability of 13%
to respond to a sender that is at ancestor-distance 0. The
probability is about 8% for ancestor-distances 2 and 3 and
assumes smaller values for large ancestor-distances.
3.2.4 Time Since Receiver’s Last Email Activity
We found the following activity bias. The probability of
reply decreases with the time elapsed since the last observed
email activity of the receiver (Fig. 14). Note that our obser-
vation of user’s email activity is limited to email send events.
We would expect that an email would be replied more likely
if received while the user is active (i.e., processing email).
Due to the observations of small median response time in
Section 3.1.3, we expect that the estimated probability of
reply time for emails received shortly after an email was sent
would be larger because of the potential instant-messenger
like conversations among employees through email. Indeed,
we found that the probability of email reply to an email
received shortly after an email was sent is roughly 0.1 and
drops to about half if received 10 minutes after an email was
sent. The probability of email reply drops for an order of
magnitude if received about 6 hours after an email was sent.
This appears aligned with the diurnal periodicity.

While it is intuitive to expect that the probability of email
reply would decrease with the duration of email inactivity of
the receiver due to the accumulated email processing load, it
is surprising to ﬁnd the observed magnitude of decrease over
the timescale of 1 hour. These results suggest that users
prioritize processing emails with respect to recency and is
consistent with the recency bias observed in Section 3.1. The
activity bias suggests that from an email sender viewpoint,
it does matter when an email is sent, not only to expect a
prompt reply, but also in order to elicit a reply in the ﬁrst
place!
3.2.5 Rate of Emails from Sender to Receiver
For this factor we observe the same qualitative properties
as for the receiver-to-sender activity (Section 3.2.2). Thus,
we only discuss the diﬀerences here. We ﬁnd that, over-
all, the conditional probability is of smaller magnitude com-
pared to the receiver-to-sender interaction (Fig. 15). The
maximum likelihood threshold is smaller with 1 email per
day or about 1.7 emails per work day with the 95%-conﬁdence
interval of 0.7 to 1.6 emails per day.

Figure 13: Probability of reply conditional on the
ancestor-distance between sender and receiver.

3.2.2 Rate of Emails from Receiver to Sender
The probability of the email reply conditioned on the rate
of email ﬂow from the receiver to sender exhibits the fol-
lowing threshold behavior (see Fig. 12). The probability of
email reply increases with diminishing returns (in particu-
lar, the growth is logarithmic) with the rate of the email
ﬂow from the receiver to sender up to a threshold. Beyond
this threshold, there is a qualitative change of the depen-
dence, with a deviation from the linear dependence in the
logarithmic scale and a tendency towards smaller values.

We estimate the value of the threshold by a linear re-
gression model where the relation between the email rate
and the probability of reply is assumed to be a concatena-
tion of two linear segments intersecting at a threshold value.
This deﬁnes a family of models indexed by the threshold
value. We choose the model with the maximum likelihood
estimate of the threshold [3] which results in an estimate of
about 2.8 emails per day, or 4.3 emails per work day; the
95%-conﬁdence interval ranges from 2.3 to 3.5 emails per
day.

The above analysis suggests a “congestion collapse” type
of dependence where the reply probability increases up to
a threshold and decreases beyond. It would be natural to
argue that the value of the threshold could be interpreted
as the capacity of information processing by users.

3.2.3 Ancestor-Distance
We found evidence of the following homophily bias. The
probability of reply tends to decrease with the ancestor-
distance between the correspondents. For “report-to” re-

WWW 2009 MADRID!Track: Social Networks and Web 2.0 / Session: Diffusion and Search in Social Networks717Figure 15: Probability of reply conditional on the
number of emails from sender to receiver.

Figure 17: Probability of reply conditional on the
sender identity.

Figure 16: Probability of reply conditional on the
sender level.

The observed threshold phenomena suggests existence of
a threshold on the rate of emails sent to a correspondent
beyond which there is an adverse eﬀect on eliciting a reply.
3.2.6 Org Level of Sender
By visual inspection of Fig. 16, we observe that the de-
pendence of the probability of reply on the sender level does
not present any monotonic patterns with a notable spike cen-
tered around at sender level 5. We have also examined the
dependence on the identity of the sender. Fig. 17 demon-
strates that there is a dependence on the sender identity,
indicating large diversity across user proﬁles.
3.2.7 Email Size
Fig. 18 shows the estimated probability of reply condi-
tional on the email size. As in the previous ﬁgures, the
reported points are the ones with 95%-conﬁdence intervals
less than or equal to 0.01. We observe that the probability of
reply grows from about 0.005 to 0.3 over the interval from 1
to 10 KB and then remains concentrated at around 0.3 over
the interval from 10 to 100 KB. We also observe some spikes
at around 500 KB with values roughly at 0.07.
3.3 Analysis of Variance

To examine the signiﬁcance of these factors more rigor-
ously and obtain an estimate of error should these factors
were used to predict a reply, we conducted one-way analysis
of variance (ANOVA) on a random sample of 0.5M emails.
The analysis was performed for discrete values of factors ob-

Figure 18: Probability of reply conditional on the
email size.

tained by log binning and rounding of the original values to
limit the number of values for factors such as email size.

For factors 1 to 7, ANOVA analysis resulted in p-values
equal to zero and F values ranging from 275 to 4325 indicat-
ing that all factors are important. The orders of factors in
decreasing F value and increasing mean square value are the
same and follow the discussion order over the previous sec-
tions from the most to the least signiﬁcant according to the
test. The mean square values span the range of values from
0.0307 to 0.0349. As a point or reference, we consider the
unconditional probability of reply that amounts to 0.0344
which corresponds to the mean prediction error of about
0.0332. Hence, conditioning on factor 1 (recipient list size),
we obtain a moderate gain of about 5%.

We also ran a two-way analysis of variance over all dis-
tinct pairs of factors for random samples of 20,000 emails
obtaining consistent results. In summary, based on the p-
values, we observed that all the factors are signiﬁcant, with
the exception of the sender level combined with the recipi-
ent list size or the ancestor distance. The four factor pairs
with the smallest mean square error all contain the recipient
list size factor, which, recall, was already found to be most
signiﬁcant by one-way analysis of variance. The smallest
mean square error was obtained by combining the recipient
list size with the email size, equal to 0.287 corresponding to
21.60% prediction gain.

In summary, we found that individual factors yield mod-
erate gain with respect to the prediction error and that this
can be signiﬁcantly improved by conditioning on more than
one factor. We have attempted further running ANOVA

WWW 2009 MADRID!Track: Social Networks and Web 2.0 / Session: Diffusion and Search in Social Networks718Figure 19: LEFT: New contacts discovered through friends-of-friends relationships versus the original contact
list size. The number of new contacts grows linearly up to roughly contact list sizes of order 100. RIGHT:
CDFs of new contacts discovered per local contact for two edge thresholds in the email graph. About 100
new contacts can be discovered through roughly 80% of the local contacts.

combinations of several factors, for example combinations
of three or more. However due to the explosion of the com-
binations of values for the various factors, processing was
not feasible with non-trivial sample sizes (more than a few
tens per combinations of values).

4. AUGMENTING CONTACT LISTS

THROUGH FRIENDS-OF-FRIENDS

Most contemporary email client applications are limited
to extracting information from “local” emails, either sent or
received by the the speciﬁc user. Using this local knowledge,
these clients then support features for processing emails and
other business-related tasks through email. Use of global in-
formation, for example a company’s address book, is some-
times present but is rather employed for a limited set of
tasks, such as meeting requests or sharing of basic informa-
tion (e.g., business titles).

We believe that email clients and the email service in
general could greatly beneﬁt by information extracted from
several email users and aggregated through collaborative ﬁl-
tering techniques. Such a service could support advanced
features, present in most of today’s social networks, such
as expert ﬁnder, people search, etc. Thus, integration of
social-networking features such as discovery of new contacts
or information sharing among friends appears attractive.

Motivated by these potentials, we explore here the ex-
tent to which the graph induced by email communications
can support discovery of new contacts. Speciﬁcally, we are
interested in the two-hop relationships in the email graph,
namely the friends-of-friends (or contacts-of-contacts) rela-
tionships. To this end, we consider two diﬀerent viewpoints.
First, we examine how much a local contact list of a speciﬁc
user can be augmented by new contacts discovered from this
user’s one-hop neighbors. Second, we consider the discov-
ery of new contacts per contact, i.e., the augmentation of
the contact list conditioning on selected users. This view-
point is similarly of interest in scenarios of search or ﬁltering
friends-of-friends for selected contacts.

Fig. 19-left presents the number of new contacts a local
contact list could be augmented with by adding friends-of-
friends versus the size of the original contact list per user.
For this analysis, we consider thresholding of 15 emails per
edge as described in Section 2.2 to identify true contact re-
lationships. We observe that the number of new contacts
increases with diminishing returns with the size of the con-

tact list. This is expected; if the graph was a balanced tree
with branching factor b, then the number of new contacts
would be equal to b2, which is equal to the number of second-
hop neighbors. Otherwise, the growth would be slower due
to the existence of triads in the email graph, i.e., loops of
length three hops.

Indeed, examining Fig 19-left, we note that the median
number of new contacts follows a linear growth conditional
on the contact list size of up to order 100 consistent roughly
with a tree-like structure. For a contact list size of order
100, the number of new contacts from friends-of-friends is
about two orders of magnitude larger compared to the size
of the local contact list. Considering that a typical user in
our data has a contact list of size 60, this allows a discovery
of about 2,000 new contacts according to Fig. 19. While
this number appears rather large, it corresponds to only an
1/100 portion of the enterprise’s employees. Nevertheless,
handling 2,000 new contacts would require eﬃcient search
and ﬁltering features to assist the user.

We turn now our attention to the new contacts discovered
per contact in the contact list. Fig. 19-right shows the em-
pirical cumulative distribution function for the number of
new contacts discovered per contact for two edge thresholds
of 15 and 20.
In both cases, we observe qualitatively the
same behavior. The median number of contacts discovered
is approximately 20 and about 80% of the users’s ﬁrst-hop
contacts can oﬀer less than 100 new contacts. This suggests
that the number of new contacts discovered from a local
contact may not necessitate sophisticated processing tools.

5. RELATED WORK

While there has been various studies that consider email
graphs, analysis has thus far concentrated on the graph
structures and their evolution over time.

In particular, Adami´c and Adar [1] studied the perfor-
mance of greedy forwarding algorithms and provided empir-
ical performance results for the email communication graph
of a moderate-size enterprise that employed about 400 em-
ployees. In particular, an edge of the graph was formed be-
tween two individuals if and only if they exchanged at least
6 emails over a course of 3 months (1/2 emails per week,
on average). They found that the greedy forwarding that
biases to next-hop with the largest degree performs poorly
and argued that this is because of the exponential decay of
the degree distribution. In contrast, the greedy scheme that

WWW 2009 MADRID!Track: Social Networks and Web 2.0 / Session: Diffusion and Search in Social Networks719biases forwarding to a node with the smallest organizational
distance to the destination node was found to perform well.
Our work diﬀers both on the focus, and also the scale of our
study. Our analysis concentrates on examining the potential
of augmenting the email service with social-networking type
of features. The scale of our study is considerably larger as
we consider a global, large-scale enterprise with more than
100,000 employees.

Additionally, Kossinets and Watts, as well as Eckmann et
al. examined the structure of email graphs and its evolution
over time [8, 9, 7]. These studies are concerned more with
the temporal evolution of the relationships in email graphs;
instead, our work focuses on proﬁling the nodes (email cor-
respondents) and their interactions.

Part of our work on the understanding the ﬂow of emails
and its relation to the underlying organizational structure
and user proﬁles is related to sociological literature such as
that of Allen and Cohen [2]. Therein, authors considered
interactions as they happen in research laboratories. The
main factors that determine information ﬂow are identiﬁed
as (a) organizational structure and (b) through “technolog-
ical gatekeepers”. Another related work is that of Sproull
and Kiesler [14] that, in particular, suggested that email pro-
motes status equalization within the medium. While from
our data we cannot test this hypothesis, our results suggest
symmetry in email ﬂow between correspondents at diﬀerent
organizational levels.

Email processing strategies have been examined through
user studies such as that of Venoila et al [17], Tyler et al[15],
or Neustadter et al [11]. These works consider factors such
as the status of the correspondent or the email importance.
Our work is instead based on measurable data of user ac-
tions, and considers a broader set of factors in a larger-scale
measurement of user behavior regarding the email service.

Finally, we point to the line of work on the general prob-
lem of ranking expertise and interest that, in particular, con-
sidered graphs induced by email communications, e.g., [12,
4, 6, 18]. While we characterize user proﬁles across various
dimensions, our focus is not on expertize ranking. Other
related work is that of Tyler et al [16], which considers clus-
tering of an email graph in communities.

6. CONCLUSION

We presented analysis of behavioral proﬁles observed in
usage of emails in enterprise scenarios. We focused on under-
standing which factors inﬂuence email replies, and assessed
their signiﬁcance. We observed that only a small portion of
email-send events corresponds to replies. We demonstrated
that the prediction of email reply can already be improved
by simple models that condition on values of a few factors,
most notably the recipient list size and the email size. We
also focused on evaluating the augmentation of contact lists
with new contacts taken from the friends-of-friends relation-
ships in the email social graph. This would be of interest
for an advanced email service, complemented with social-
networking features.

Future work may study other prediction models for email
replies. In particular, of interest would be online learning
models, that would account for possible temporal correla-
tions in the email behavior of individual users. Comple-
menting such analysis with results of a user study would
enable detailed observations of email processing strategies,
and how user interface designs impact human behavior.

7. REFERENCES
[1] L. Adamic and E. Adar. How to search a social
network. Social Networks, 27(3):187–203, 2005.

[2] T. J. Allen and S. I. Cohen. Information Flow in

Research and Development Laboratories.
Administrative Science Quarterly, 14(1):12–19, 1969.

[3] J.-Y. L. Boudec. Performance Evaluation Lecture

Notes.
http://ica1www.epfl.ch/perfeval/lectureNotes.htm.

[4] C. S. Campbell, P. P. Maglio, A. Cozzi, and B. Dom.
Expertise Identiﬁcation using Email Communication.
In Proc. of CIKM 2003, pages 528–531, 2003.

[5] K. J. Delaney and V. Vara. Will Social Features Make

Email Sexy Again? The Wall Street Journal, Oct.
2007.

[6] B. Dom, I. Eiron, A. Cozzi, and Y. Zhang.

Graph-based ranking algorithms for E-mail expertise
analysis. In Proc. of the 8th ACM SIGMOD Workshop
on Research Issues in Data Mining and Knowledge
Discovery, pages 42–48, San Diego, California, 2003.

[7] J.-P. Eckmann, E. Moses, and D. Sergi. Entropy of

dialogues creates coherent structures in e-mail traﬃc.
In Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. 101:14333-14337, 2004.

[8] G. Kossinets, J. Kleinberg, and D. Watts. The

structure of information pathways in a social
communication network. In ACM SIGKDD, pages
435–443, New York, NY, USA, 2008. ACM.

[9] G. Kossinets and D. Watts. Empirical analysis of an
evolving social network. In Science, 311:88 ˝U90, 2006.

[10] C. Neustaedter, A. J. B. Brush, and M. A. Smith.

Beyond From and Received: Exploring the Dynamics
of Email Triage. In Proc. of ACM CHI, 1977-1980,
2005.

[11] C. Neustaedter, A. J. B. Brush, M. A. Smith, and

D. Fisher. The Social Network and Relationship
Finder: Social Sorting for Email Triage. In Fifth
Conference on Email and Anti-Spam, CEAS, 2005.

[12] M. F. Schwartz and D. C. M. Wood. Discovering

Shared Interests Among People Using Graph Analysis
of Global Electronic Mail Traﬃc. ACM
Communications, 36(8):78–89, 1993.

[13] X. Shi, L. Adamic, and M. Strauss. Network of Strong

Ties. Pysica A, 378(1):33–47, 2007.

[14] L. Sproull and S. Kiesler. Reducing Social Context

Cues: Electronic Email in Organizational
Communications. Management Science,
32(11):1492–1512, 1986.

[15] J. R. Tyler and J. C. Tang. When can i expect an

email response? a study of rhythms in email usage. In
Proc. of ECSCW, 239-258, 2003.

[16] J. R. Tyler, D. M. Wilkinson, and B. A. Huberman.

Email as spectroscopy: automated discovery of
community structure within organization.
Communities and technologies, pages 81–96, 2003.

[17] G. D. Venoila, L. Dabbish, J. J. Cadiz, and A. Gupta.

Supporting Email Workﬂow. Technical Report
MSR-TR-2001-88, Microsoft Research, 2001.

[18] J. Zhang, M. S. Ackerman, and L. Adamic. Expertise
Networks in Online Communities. In Proc. of WWW
2007, Banﬀ, Alberta, Canada, 2007.

WWW 2009 MADRID!Track: Social Networks and Web 2.0 / Session: Diffusion and Search in Social Networks720