Message from the Program Committee Chairs 

 
We  would  like  to  warmly  welcome  you  to  Beijing  for  the  WWW2008  conference.  After  a  short  but 
influential history of 16 years, the WWW conference is being held in China for the first time, where Internet 
technology is becoming increasingly critical in almost all fields as China's dynamic economy continues to 
grow at lightning speed. The advanced WWW infrastructure here connects the nation’s 1.3 billion people to 
the world, and the world can conveniently learn about China via the Web. We are fortunate to be holding the 
conference in one of the most attractive cities in the world. Beijing is not only famous for its many world 
heritage sites (e.g., the Forbidden City, the Great Wall, etc.) and rich culture and ancient history, but also 
presents a modern, high-energy society rapidly advancing on the global stage.  

The WWW conference series has maintained its excellent reputation as the top venue for presenting the best 
papers on important problems in the field. It has had a great impact on the research and development of the 
Internet  and  Web  applications.  Indeed,  the  original  paper  for  the  design  and  implementation  of  Google’s 
Search Engine was published in WWW7 (1998).  

To  address  important  emerging  areas  on  WWW,  this  year  we  have  introduced  three  new  tracks:  Social 
Networks  and  Web  2.0,  Rich  Media,  and  Internet  Monetization.  We  have  also  organized  a  new  alternate 
track, WWW in China, which will provide a great forum for participants to learn the latest and most exciting 
WWW research and development in China. In addition, WWW2008 has invited four keynote speakers and 
several plenary presentations will be made in the alternate tracks, along with workshops and tutorials. 

This year, the number of submissions reached a record high: 880 papers were submitted by the deadline. The 
track chairs and their subcommittees worked hard to select 92 papers to be presented in 13 regular tracks. 
The PC meeting was held at Yahoo! Headquarters in Sunnyvale, California, during January 8-9, 2008. The 
three program committee Chairs and Tracks Chairs attended the meeting, which lasted for two days. Each 
paper  went  through  a  thorough  evaluation  with  at  least  three  reviews  before  the  meeting.  The  committee 
discussed  the  top  30%  of  papers  selected  for  each  track.  In  all,  we  accepted  103  papers  (including  11 
alternate track papers), for an acceptance rate of under 12%. 

We would like to thank all the Track Chairs and all the Program Committee members for their dedication and 
expert reviews, ensuring a high-quality technical program. Professor Jinpeng Huai and Dr. Robin Chen, the 
Co-General Chairs of the conference, have provided superb support and guidance to us in preparing a strong 
technical program. They deserve a lot of credit for the success of WWW2008. 

We hope you enjoy your attendance at WWW2008 for its excellent technical programs and opportunities 
for  research  exchanges  with  colleagues  from  all  over  the  world.  We  hope  you  will  also  take  time  to 
experience the beauty and wonders of Beijing and other parts of China!  

Wei-Ying Ma 
Microsoft Research Asia 

Andrew Tomkins  
Yahoo! Search 

Xiaodong Zhang 
The Ohio State University 

 
 

 

iv

