BlogScope: Spatio-temporal Analysis of the Blogosphere

Department of Computer Science

Nilesh Bansal
University of Toronto

nilesh@cs.toronto.edu

Nick Koudas

Department of Computer Science

University of Toronto

koudas@cs.toronto.edu

INTRODUCTION

ABSTRACT
We present BlogScope (www.blogscope.net), a system for analyz-
ing the Blogosphere. BlogScope is an information discovery and
text analysis system that offers a set of unique features. Such fea-
tures include, spatio-temporal analysis of blogs, ﬂexible navigation
of the Blogosphere through information bursts, keyword correla-
tions and burst synopsis, as well as enhanced ranking functions for
improved query answer relevance. We describe the system, its de-
sign and the features of the current version of BlogScope.
Categories and Subject Descriptors: H.3.3 Information Storage
and Retrieval: Information Search and Retrieval
General Terms: Algorithms
Keywords: Text Analysis, Blogs, Trends, Visualization, Informa-
tion Discovery
1.
Blogs have been proliferating over the last couple of years. It
is estimated that the size of the Blogosphere in August 2006 was
two orders of magnitude larger than three years ago [3] . Blog-
ging activity includes personal diaries, traveling experiences, opin-
ions (about products, events, people, music groups, or businesses),
howto guides, and politics. Collecting, monitoring and analyzing
information on blogs can provide key insights on ‘public opinion’
on a variety of topics, such as products, political views, or enter-
tainment.
It can also be a source of competitive intelligence in-
formation and market trends [1]. As a result, techniques that aid
the collection, analysis, mining and efﬁcient querying of blogs are
important and this trend is expected to persist, given the growing
popularity of blogs.
The information in blogs and its dynamics differ from the tradi-
tional web content. Signiﬁcant differences include: (1) blog posts
have a time of creation adding a temporal dimension, (2) blog posts
may trigger additional posts by the same or other bloggers leading
to a discussion in the Blogosphere, and (3) blog posts can be easily
associated with a geographical location which is the same as the
location of the author1. We introduce BlogScope, a system with
enhanced analysis capabilities (well beyond keyword search) for
blogs2.
1Traditional websites, e.g., en.wikipedia.org or www.yahoo.com,
do not have a well deﬁned geographical location.
2Although we conﬁne our discussion on blogs we believe that
much of our discussion is pertinent to all temporally ordered
streaming text sources like mailing lists, forums, news groups etc..

Copyright is held by the author/owner(s).
WWW 2007, May 8–12, 2007, Banff, Alberta, Canada.
ACM 978-1-59593-654-7/07/0005.

Figure 1: GeoSearch for the query iphone. Black dots on the
map represent regions where bloggers are writing about the
searched query.

2. ANALYZING THE BLOGOSPHERE
The analysis paradigm that BlogScope facilitates is segmented in
four steps. BlogScope identiﬁes what is ‘interesting’, when it was
‘interesting’, why it is ‘interesting’, and where it is ‘interesting’.
On its front page, BlogScope displays a list of hot keywords. Such
keywords are computed daily from the actual content of blog posts.
Based on this list, a user can formulate a query to seek for relevant
blog posts. The traditional text query interface is also supported to
identify posts relevant to a query, in case one is seeking for speciﬁc
information. Once the keywords of interest are identiﬁed, a query
is formed and relevant blog posts are retrieved. The next question
BlogScope aids to answer is when it was interesting. To answer this
question, BlogScope plots the popularity of the query keywords in
blog posts, as a function of time, and identiﬁes and marks inter-
esting temporal regions as bursts in the keyword popularity. The
third step of the analysis is to investigate why it is interesting. Cor-
related keywords (intuitively deﬁned as keywords closely related
to the keyword query at the speciﬁed temporal interval) are auto-
matically displayed by BlogScope. Such keywords aim to provide
explanations or provide insights as to why the keyword experiences
a surge in its popularity. Based on these keywords, one can reﬁne
the search and drill down in the temporal dimension towards a more
focused subset of blog posts. The ﬁnal step is to identify where it is
interesting. BlogScope associates with each blog its geographical
coordinates. This information is used to annotate the world map
with regions where bloggers are writing about the searched query.
Figure 1 and 2 provide example screenshots from BlogScope
demonstrating various features. It must be noted that all the analy-
sis is performed on the actual textual content of blog posts, and not
on tags because: (1) tagging requires manual effort, (2) most blogs
posts are not tagged, and (3) a few tags can not accurately capture
complete information present in a post.
Popularity and Bursts: The popularity curve for a keyword
(or set of keywords) displays how often the speciﬁed keywords are
mentioned in the Blogosphere as a function to time. Such a curve

WWW 2007 / Poster PaperTopic: Social Networks1269(a)

(b)

(c)

Figure 2: (a) Popularity curve for the keywords saddam hussein. Saddam was convicted on November 5 2006, and was executed on
December 30 2006. Regions marked in red indicate bursts. (b) Hot keywords cloud tag for July 30 2006. (c) Correlations for keyword
earthquake for December 27 2006, soon after an undersea earthquake in taiwan resulting in disruption of internet services.
and its ﬂuctuation can provide insight regarding the keyword popu-
larity evolution over time. An unexpected increase in the popularity
of a keyword indicates the occurrence of an event. Such events are
captured by BlogScope as keyword bursts, and are marked in red
on the popularity curve. The popularity of different keywords can
be compared for analysis purposes.
Correlations: Information in the Blogosphere is highly dynamic
in nature. As topics evolve, keywords align together to form sto-
ries; and as topics recede, these keyword clusters dissolve. This
formation and dissolution of clusters of keywords is captured by
BlogScope in the form of correlations. With every search, a list
of keywords in blog posts most closely related to the search query
keywords is displayed. Roughly speaking, such keywords are those
that most frequently co-occur with the searched query terms (weighted
by their idf). They aim to provide insight regarding the posts rele-
vant to the searched queries.
Geo Search: With every post indexed by BlogScope, a city,
state and country is maintained. This is done by extracting loca-
tion string from author proﬁles, and utilizing approximate match
technology (e.g.
[2]) against lists of known cities. As a result,
BlogScope can display the distribution of the posts on a map, or
restrict the search to select regions of the world.
Hot Keywords: On its front page BlogScope displays a list of
hot keywords for that day in the form of a cloud tag. BlogScope
uses a measure of ‘interestingness’ for keywords and ranks all key-
words for a day according to this measure.
Interesting does not
necessarily refer to popular. For example, keywords that exhibit
sudden change in their popularities are more interesting. In a few
occasions, Blogscope tracked popular keywords that corresponded
to events that have not made mainstream news media. For example
the term math was highly popular on the week of August 7 2006
in the Blogosphere as reported by BlogScope. The event corre-
sponded to the news about the Poincare conjecture proof by Grig-
ory Perelman. New York Times had an article on this on August 15
2006.
Burst Synopsis: In order to aid information discovery, BlogScope
incorporates features that aim to explain events related to a search
In particular once a burst is identiﬁed for a query string,
query.
BlogScope can generate a synopsis set for it. The semantics associ-
ated with the burst synopsis set for a query q is that it is the maximal
set of keywords correlated with q that exhibit a bursty behavior in
the associated popularity curves. For example, consider the query
saddam on December 30 2006 (the day when he was executed).
BlogScope generates the set saddam, hussein, hanging, execution,
dictator, iraq, brutal as its burst synopsis, which includes all key-
words that exhibit a burst on the selected day in connection to the
query, serving as a description of the event.

3. CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE WORK
We presented BlogScope, a text analysis system suitable for tem-
porally ordered streaming text, currently applied to the analysis of
the Blogosphere. At the time of this writing, it was tracking over
4.5 million blogs with around 40 million posts in its database. Ev-
eryday around 100 thousand new posts are added to the system. It
is extremely important, given the analysis the system conducts, for
the techniques employed to be computationally efﬁcient in order
to scale at this level. We have therefore developed effective and
efﬁcient algorithms for burst identiﬁcation, discovering correlated
terms, mining hot keywords, and burst synopsis generation. Fig-
ure 3 presents the overall architecture of the system highlighting its
main components. We plan to continue enhancing BlogScope with
several features to improve navigation, information discovery and
performance.
4. REFERENCES
[1] D. Gruhl, R. V. Guha, R. Kumar, J. Novak, and A. Tomkins. The
[2] A. Chandel, O. Hassanzadeh, N. Koudas, M. Sadoghi, and

Figure 3: High level system architecture of BlogScope.

predictive power of online chatter. In SIGKDD. ACM, 2005.
D. Srivastava Benchmarking Declarative Approximate Selection
Predicates In SIGMOD, 2007.
http://www.sifry.com/alerts/archives/000436.html.

[3] State of the Blogosphere - aug 2006.

WWW 2007 / Poster PaperTopic: Social Networks1270