Location and the Web (LocWeb 2008) 

Susanne Boll,1 Christopher Jones,2 Eric Kansa,3 Puneet Kishor,4 Mor Naaman,5  

Ross Purves,6 Arno Scharl,7 Erik Wilde8 

1 University of Oldenburg; Oldenburg, Germany; susanne.boll@uni-oldenburg.de 

2 Cardiff University, Wales, United Kingdom; c.b.jones@cs.cf.ac.uk 
3 UC Berkeley, Berkeley, CA, USA; ekansa@ischool.berkeley.edu 

4 University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, Wisconsin, USA; punkish@eidesis.org  

5 Yahoo! Inc., Berkeley, CA, USA; mor@yahoo-inc.com  

6 University of Zurich – Irchel, Zurich, Switzerland; ross.purves@geo.uzh.ch 

7 MODUL University Vienna, Vienna, Austria; scharl@modul.ac.at 

8 dret@berkeley.edu, CA, USA; dret@berkeley.edu 

 

ABSTRACT 
The World Wide Web has become the world’s largest networked 
information  resource,  but  references  to  geographical  locations 
remain unstructured and typically implicit in nature. This lack of 
explicit  spatial  knowledge  within  the  Web  makes  it  difficult  to 
service  user  needs  for  location-specific  information.  At  present, 
spatial knowledge is hidden in many small information fragments 
such as addresses on Web pages, annotated photos with GPS co-
ordinates, geographic mapping applications, and geotags in user-
generated  content.  Several  emerging  formats  that  primarily  or 
secondarily  include  location  metadata,  like  GeoRSS,  KML,  and 
microformats, aim to improve this state of affairs. However, the 
question remains how to extract, index, mine, find, view, mashup, 
and exploit Web content using its location semantics. This work-
shop brings together researchers from academia and industry labs 
to discuss and present the latest results and trends in all facets of 
the relationships between location concepts and Web information. 
Categories & Subject Descriptors: H. Information 
Systems, H.3.1 [Information Storage and Retrieval]: Content Analy-
sis and Indexing, H.3.3 [Information Storage and Retrieval]: Infor-
mation Search and Retrieval, H.3.5 [Information Storage and Re-
trieval]: Online Information Services, H.5.4 [Information Interfaces 
and Presentation]: Hypertext/Hypermedia.  
General Terms: Algorithms, Design, Experimentation, Hu-
man Factors, Management, Measurement, Standardization, Theory 
Keywords: location, geospatial, geographic data 

1.  INTRODUCTION 
This workshop brings together researchers of different disciplines 
and outlines innovative ways to extract, index, mine, find, exploit, 
mashup,  and  visualize  Web  content  with  respect  to  its  location 
semantics.  Applications  increasingly  utilize  location  as  a  funda-
mental  means  of  structuring  information  with  regard  to  space, 
navigating  complex  repositories,  and  tracking  the  evolution  of 
knowledge  within  and  across  organizational  boundaries.  The 
workshop takes a high level view of the many challenges raised in 
 
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s). 
WWW 2008,  April 21–25, 2008, Beijing, China. 
ACM 978-1-60558-085-2/08/04. 

the  pursuit  of  these  themes  and  enables  a  truly  interdisciplinary 
approach to their solution.  
In recent years, the topic of location has appeared in many com-
munities  and  is  the  subject  of  a  great  deal  of  attention  —  user 
generated content, location-related multimedia Web content, Web 
scale  geo-content  mining,  and  mobile  search  are  only  some  of 
these  developments.  The  workshop  proceedings  bring  together 
work from different communities to lay the technical foundations 
of a location-aware Web.   

2.  TOPICS 
Due to the interdisciplinary definition of the workshop topic, the 
papers cover a wide array of topics related to the location Web. 
These topics potentially include: 
−  Spatial  Web  retrieval,  including  the  crawling  of  Web  re-
sources and the extraction and indexing of location informa-
tion  embedded  in  these  resources.  Topics  cover  geographi-
cally  focused  search  and  crawling,  ranking  for  geographical 
search,  understanding  and  modeling  location  and  location-
based features, harvesting and mining location from different 
Web sources.  

−  Semantics  of  location  on  the  Web,  including  location  as  a 
first-level  Web  concept,  syntax,  standards  and  semantics  for 
location, core location concepts and formal ontologies for lo-
cation information. 

−  Users  and  location:  extracting  location from Web communi-
ties  and  social  media  data,  using  location  for  novel  applica-
tions that connect users to data, and to other users. 

−  Gazetteers and location-entity information sources: novel uses 
of  gazetteers  and  location-driven  datasets;  generating  and 
maintaining location-driven information sources. 

−  Media  and  location:  spatial  indexing  of  media  resources  on 
the Web, geographic annotation techniques for geo-referenced 
media,  applications  using  geography-driven  media  and  con-
tent. 

−  Visualizing  geographic  data.  This  topic  includes  geographic 
user interfaces for the Web, visualizing, displaying and inter-
acting  with  location-driven  query  results,  tools  and  applica-

1261WWW 2008 / Workshop Summary April 21-25, 2008 · Beijing, Chinations of geographic mashups on the Web, visualizing and ac-
cessing  localized  data  and  search  results  on  mobile  devices 
with limited screen resolutions. 

−  Location and user mobility: mobile localized search, fusion of 
mobile  sensor  data  and  location  information,  interaction  of 
physical  location  context  and  mobile  applications  and  set-
tings, the role of location for mobile users, security and pri-
vacy consideration for location information. 

−  Platforms  for  location:  architecture,  design,  modeling  and 

principals of novel platforms to handle location-driven data. 

−  Location-based  monetization  schemes:  location  based  ads, 
models for advertising based on location content or user’s lo-
cation, models for pricing location ads on the Web. 

These  examples  illustrate  the  scope  of  the  LocWeb  workshop. 
One of the important goals of this workshop, since it is the first 
one on this topic, is to explore all the areas in which the topics of 
location  and  the  Web  intersect.  The  importance  of  location  for 
specific applications has been recognized for a quite some time, 
and the increasing availability of Internet-enabled mobile devices 
will  become  a  driving  force  to  get  location  information  out  of 
these confined application areas, and to establish it as a first-level 
concept in regard to emerging Web technology. 

3.  OBJECTIVES 
The main objective for the workshop is to take a broad and multi-
disciplinary  look  into  the  field  of  location-based  information  on 
the Web. We expect that this first workshop and follow-up events 
will bring together work from different communities and in doing 
so  will  lay  the  technical  foundations  of  a  location-aware  Web. 
With  regard  to  other  events  in  the  field,  the  workshop  aims  to 
bring together all geospatial aspects that are related to the Web in 
one workshop. Besides the different technology to extract, index, 
mine, find, exploit, mashup, and visualize location and Web con-
tent, we expect this workshop to be host to novel and varied ap-
proaches for handling and using location data on the Web. 
The  workshop  proceedings  will  be  published  electronically,  in-
cluding  the  organizers’  summary  and  all  accepted  contributions. 
We hope that these proceedings will serve as a starting point for 
further academic exploration of the topic, and will help research-
ers enjoy a broad and varied (if not complete) view of this area. 
We aim to continue discussion and set the starting point of a net-
work  of  researchers  in  all  the  fields  related  to  location  and  the 
Web. 

4.  RELATED WORK AND VENUES 
While  the  LocWeb  2008  Workshop  offers  a  unique  and  broad 
perspective  on  the  topic  at  hand,  other  events  and  publications 
exhibit some overlap with the scope of the workshop. We encour-
age those interested in the area to attend and follow related work 
from the following venues as well: 
−  The  Geographical  Information  Retrieval  Workshop  [1]  fo-
cuses on issues directly related to information retrieval and 
location data.  

−  The  International  Workshop  on  Location-  and  Context-
Awareness  (LoCa)  [2]  focuses  on  location  technology  and 
the modeling of space and context, but does not address top-
ics of the Web.  

−  The O’Reilly Where 2.0 Conference [3] brings together play-
ers  in  the  wide  field  of  location  technology  and  location-
based Web services, but has its focus on trends and leading 
edge commercial applications and systems in location-aware 
technology, it is not a research conference. 

−  The  International  Symposium  on  Digital  Earth  [4]  aims  to 
represent  a  rich  convergence  of  technological  advance,  ac-
tive  visionaries  and  recognition  of  the  paramount  need  for 
humans  to  better  understand  the  Earth.  The  perspective  of 
this event is on a much higher level. 

−  GeoWeb 2007 – From Mashups to Infrastructure [5] reflects 
the  breadth,  the  evolution,  and  the growing maturity of the 
Geospatial  Web  (GeoWeb).  This  event  has  a  very  broad 
scope  with  regard  to  technology  and  applications  in  GIS-
related topics. 
The  Geospatial  Web  –  How  Geobrowsers,  Social  Software 
and the Web 2.0 are Shaping the Network Society [6] sum-
marizes  the  Geospatial  Web’s  technical  foundations,  infor-
mation  services  and  collaborative  tools.  The  edited  volume 
also investigates the social and economic impacts of geospa-
tial technology. 

− 

5.  CONCLUSIONS 
The availability of location-driven data, location-enabled devices, 
and location applications is guaranteed to expand the opportuni-
ties that exist in the marriage of location and the Web. This first 
LocWeb workshop is just the starting point in studying the vari-
ous issues of the location-aware Web in the appropriate depth. We 
hope  to  maintain  the  LocWeb  workshop  series  alongside  the 
World Wide Web conference for years to come and will make all 
information available at http://www.locweb.org/. 

6.  REFERENCES 
[1]  Geographic Information Retrieval Workshop. 

http://www.geo.unizh.ch/~rsp/gir07/ 

[2]  International Workshop on Location- and  

Context-Awareness.  
http://loca2007.context-aware.org/ 

[3]  O’Reilly Where 2.0 Conference. 

http://conferences.oreillynet.com/where2007/ 

[4]  International Symposium on Digital Earth. 

http://www.isde5.org/ 

[5]  Geoweb – Everything is Connected.  

http://www.geoweb.org/ 

[6]  The Geospatial Web. 

http://www.geospatialweb.com/ 

  

 

1262WWW 2008 / Workshop Summary April 21-25, 2008 · Beijing, China