The Case for Technology for Developing Regions 

Keynote Talk  

Berkeley, CA, USA 

brewer@cs.berkeley.edu 

Dr. Eric A. Brewer 

UC Berkeley 

 

 

 

Abstract 
Moore’s  Law  and  the  wave  of  technologies  it  enabled  have  led  to  tremendous  improvements  in 
productivity and the quality of life in the industrialized world. Yet, technology has had almost no 
effect on the four billion people that make less US$2000/day. In this talk I argue that the decreasing 
costs  of  computing  and  wireless  networking  make  this  the  right  time  to  spread  the  benefits  of 
technology,  and  that  the  biggest  missing  piece  is  a  lack  of  focus  on  the  problems  that  matter, 
including health, education, and government. After covering some example applications that have 
shown very high impact, I take an early look at the research agenda for developing regions. Finally, 
I  examine  some  of  the  pragmatic  issues  required  to  make  progress  on  these  very  challenging 
problems. My goal is to convince high-tech researchers that technology for developing regions is 
an important and viable research topic. 

Bio 
Dr.  Brewer,  Professor  of  Computer  Science  at  UC  Berkeley,  focuses  on  all  aspects  of  Internet-
based  systems,  including  technology,  strategy,  and  government.   As  a  researcher,  he  has  led 
projects on scalable servers, search engines, network infrastructure, sensor networks, and security. 
His  current  focus  is  (high)  technology  for  developing  regions,  with  projects  in  India  and 
Bangladesh (so far).  

In 1996, he co-founded Inktomi Corporation with a Berkeley grad student based on their research 
prototype, and helped lead it onto the Nasdaq 100 before it was bought by Yahoo! in March 2003. 

In 2000, he founded the Federal Search Foundation, a 501-3(c) organization focused on improving 
consumer access to government information. Working with President Clinton, Dr. Brewer helped to 
create FirstGov.gov, the official portal of the US government.  

He received an MS and Ph.D. in EECS from MIT, and a BS in EECS from UC Berkeley. He was 
named a “Global Leader for Tomorrow” by the World Economic Forum, by the Industry Standard 
as the “most influential person on the architecture of the Internet”, by InfoWorld as one of their top 
ten  innovators,  and  by  Forbes  as  one  of  their  12  “e-mavericks”,  for  which  he  appeared  on  the 
cover.  

 
 

Copyright is held by the author/owner(s). 
WWW 2005, May 10-14, 2005, Chiba, Japan. 
ACM 1-59593-046-9/05/0005. 

96