 

Message from the General Chairs 

On behalf of the International World Wide Web Conference Committee (IW3C2) and the University of Calgary, we 
are  delighted  to  welcome  you  to  the  16th  International  World  Wide  Web  Conference  (WWW  2007)  in  Banff.  The 
WWW conference is the premier international forum for sharing the latest information about the Web, its technologies, 
and its future evolution. 

We  have  an  excellent  conference  lined  up  for  you.  WWW  2007  received  a  record  number  of  refereed  paper 
submissions this year, and accepted just under 15% of them. Complementing the high quality papers are 9 exciting 
workshops,  12  informative  tutorials,  7  expert  panels,  about  100  posters  with  late-breaking  results,  plus  the  always-
popular DevTrack and W3C track offerings. Bonus events include a WOW tutorial and a look at the history of the 
Web. A busy week indeed! 

It is difficult to estimate the time and effort required to organize a conference of this magnitude, but the task is tractable 
with  the  right  organizing  committee  at  your  command.  Many  people  have  helped  make  this  conference  a  success. 
Particularly demanding is the task of the Program Chairs: we thank Peter Patel-Schneider and Prashant Shenoy for their 
many hours of work on the conference. The high quality of the technical program owes much to their efforts, as well as 
the efforts of the track chairs, deputy chairs, program committee, and external reviewers. 

The Local Organizing Committee did everything we asked of them, and more. EventPlan served as the conference 
PCO, dealing with many logistical issues, including hotel contracts, overflow hotels, travel information, and budget. 
Key20  Media  (formerly  QuestMedia)  did  a  wonderful  job  with  the  WWW  2007  sponsorship  program.  Denilson 
Barbosa did an excellent job publicizing the conference, with print ads in CACM and regular monthly newsletters. We 
thank Camille Sinanan for her super-human efforts as Registration Chair and financial officer. Lisa Higham managed 
our student travel award program. Sue Williamson designed conference promotional material, with photos courtesy of 
the  Banff/Lake  Louise  Tourism  Bureau.  The  IW3C2  and WWW 2006  gave  valuable  advice  and  support  at  crucial 
moments. The Banff Springs Hotel personnel, especially Barb Wallace, assisted greatly with our conference planning. 
Gwen, Nathan, Qian, and Chris handled the Web site, program guide, and CD, and the WWW 2007 volunteer team 
coordinated by John Miller helped make everything run smoothly this week.  

We wish to thank our four plenary speakers (Tim Berners-Lee, Prabhakar Raghavan, Bill Buxton, and Dick Hardt) for 
sharing their insights, as well as the other authors and presenters for their contributions. We also thank our sponsors 
(especially AOL!) for their generous financial contributions to the conference. 

Thank you all for attending WWW 2007. Enjoy the conference, the hotel, the food, the beautiful mountain scenery, and 
the wonderful spring weather! Our blog awaits your comments. 

Carey Williamson, University of Calgary               Mary Ellen Zurko, IBM 

 

 

WWW 2007May 8-12, 2007. Banff, Alberta, Canada 

Message from the Program Chairs 

On  behalf  of  the  WWW  2007  Program  Committee,  we  are  delighted  to  welcome  you  to  WWW  2007,  the  16th 
conference in the World Wide Web conference series. 
The number of submissions to the refereed papers track and their quality has grown over the years. This year we had a 
record 755 submissions, of which we accepted 111 papers (a 14.7% acceptance rate). In response to the growing interest 
from the research community, we added a fourth day to the refereed papers track program, which allowed us to accept 
approximately 20% more papers than previous years. Despite this increase, many good papers had to be turned away. 
The refereed papers track consists of thirteen research areas. This year, we introduced two new tracks – Web Services 
and XML and Web Data, which were formed by splitting the old “XML and Web Services” track into two new tracks. 
We also eliminated the “Alternate papers tracks” by folding those research areas into the regular refereed paper tracks. 
Thus, Technology for Developing Regions and Industrial Practice and Experience were regular refereed paper tracks 
this year and submissions were subjected to the same process as other tracks. We are pleased to report that both set of 
changes were successful–the new tracks drew a healthy number of submissions and the quality of submissions to the 
new and the former alternate tracks were comparable to the other tracks. The table below summarizes the number of 
submissions and the number of accepted papers in each track. 

 

Submissions  Accepts 

 

Submissions  Accepts 

Browsers & User Interfaces 

Data Mining 

E* Applications 

Industrial Practice & 
Experience 
Performance & Scalability 
Pervasive Web & Mobility 
Search 

48 

105 

52 

22 

30 
11 
140 

6 

14 

6 

4 

7 
3 
20 

Security, Privacy, 
Reliability & Ethics 
Semantic Web 
Technology for 
Developing Regions 

Web Engineering 

Web Services 
XML & Web Data 
 

63 

114 

20 

40 

56 
52 
 

10 

16 

4 

7 

8 
6 
 

All papers underwent a rigorous review process by the technical program committee—each paper was reviewed by at 
least  three  reviewers,  followed  by  an  online  discussion  phase  to  reconcile  conflicting  opinions.  Candidate  accept, 
borderline  and  controversial  papers  were  discussed  at  length  at  a  two  day  program  committee  meeting,  which  was 
attended by all track and deputy chairs.  Some track chairs attended the meeting via audio conferencing from a satellite 
California site. We are pleased with the final outcome and present to you a technical program comprising 111 papers, 
all of which are of the highest standard.  
The task of putting together the technical program of a large conference such as WWW2007 is a substantial endeavor. 
Many  people  contributed  to  the  success  of  the  technical  program.  We  would  like  to  thank  the  entire  WWW2007 
program committee for their hard work and dedication. The general chairs Mary Ellen Zurko and Carey Williamsom 
have  been  extremely  supportive  in  a  multitude  of  ways.  Special  thanks  to  Andrei  Voronkov  for  his  help  with  the 
Easychair web reviewing. Thanks to Alcatel-Lucent Bell Labs for hosting the Program Committee meeting, to Google 
California for hosting the satellite site for the PC meeting, and to Lisa Tolles of Sheridan Printing for assembling the 
conference proceedings. 
Last but not least, we would like to thank the numerous authors for submitting excellent papers and to the attendees for 
making the conference a success.  

Peter F. Patel-Schneider 

Bell Labs Research, USA 

Prashant Shenoy 

University of Massachusetts Amherst, USA

 

 

WWW 2007May 8-12, 2007. Banff, Alberta, Canada