Mining Cultural Differences

from a Large Number of Geotagged Photos

Keiji Yanai

The University of Electro-Communications

Chofu, Tokyo 182-8585 JAPAN

yanai@cs.uec.ac.jp

ABSTRACT
We propose a novel method to detect cultural diﬀerences
over the world automatically by using a large amount of geo-
tagged images on the photo sharing Web sites such as Flickr.
We employ the state-of-the-art object recognition technique
developed in the research community of computer vision to
mine representative photos of the given concept for represen-
tative local regions from a large-scale unorganized collection
of consumer-generated geotagged photos. The results help
us understand how objects, scenes or events corresponding
to the same given concept are visually diﬀerent depending
on local regions over the world.

Categories and Subject Descriptors: H.3.3 Information
Search and Retrieval: Miscellaneous

General Terms: Algorithms, Experimentation, Measure-
ment

Keywords: geotag, object recognition, representative im-
age, Flickr
1.

INTRODUCTION

Recently, consumer-generated media (CGM) on the Web
has become very popular. Especially, photo sharing sites
such as Flickr and Picasa are representative CGM sites,
which store a huge number of consumer-generated photos
people uploaded, and make them accessible via the Web for
everyone. Photo sharing sites collect not only photos but
also metadata on uploaded photos. As metadata users add
to photos, textual information such as keywords and com-
ments is common. Recently, in addition to texts, some users
attach “geotags” to their uploaded photos. Note that a “geo-
tag” means metadata which represents a location where the
corresponding photo was taken, which is expressed by a set
of a latitude and a longitude.

An accurate geotag can be obtained with a GPS device
or a location-aware camera-phone. However, since it forces
us to use relatively special devices, GPS-based geotags have
not been common so far. Instead, map-based geotags have
become common, after Flickr, which is the largest photo
sharing site in the world, launched an online geotagging in-
terface in 2006. Then, Flickr also became the largest “geo-
tagged” photo database in the world. According to [3], there
are currently over 40,000,000 public geotagged photos on
Flickr, and 100,000 geotagged photos have been added ev-
ery month. These geotagged photos would be valuable not
only for browsing and ﬁnding individual concepts, but also
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s).
WWW2009, April 20-24, 2009, Madrid, Spain.
ACM 978-1-60558-487-4/09/04.

Beijing University of Posts and Technology

Bingyu Qiu

Beijing, 100876, China
bigyuqiu@bupt.cn

for helping us understand how local speciﬁc objects or scenes
over the world are diﬀerent.

Our objective is thus to facilitate a system which can au-
tomatically select relevant and representative photographs
for the general object or scene concepts in the worldwide
dimensions. In particular, we consider geotagged photos on
Flickr, identify the representative image groups, and gen-
erate an aggregate representation based on locations that
allows navigation, exploration and understanding of the dif-
ferences of general concepts depending on local locations
in the world visually. We employ the state-of-the-art ob-
ject recognition technique developed in the research com-
munity of computer vision to mine representative photos of
the given concept for each region from a large-scale unor-
ganized collection of consumer-generated geotagged photos.
The results help us understand how objects, scenes or events
corresponding to the same given concept are visually diﬀer-
ent depending on local regions over the world.

Figure 1: After collecting geotagged photo related
to the given concept by the text-tag-based search,
we remove noise images, cluster regions and select
regional representative images.

2. OVERVIEW OF OUR APPROACH

Our approach for selecting the representative images for
representative local regions from geotagged images consists
of three main stages (Figure 1): (1) removing irrelevant im-
ages to the given concept, (2) estimating representative ge-
ographic regions, and (3) selecting representative images for
each region.

First, we apply clustering techniques to partition the im-
age set into similar groups, based on bag-of-visual-words
feature vectors [1]. By evaluating the intra-cluster densities
as well as the cluster member numbers, we discard most of
the irrelevant images and obtain a reduced set of images
which are visually similar to each other. This stage could
be regarded as the “Filtering Stage”.

Then, we geographically cluster the reduced set of im-
ages and select large geographic clusters as representative
regions. Here we use the k-means clustering algorithm based

WWW 2009 MADRID!Poster Sessions: Friday, April 24, 20091173on the geographic latitude and longitude of photos to obtain
representative regions in the world for the given concept.

Finally, for each representative region, we perform the
Probabilistic Latent Semantic Analysis (PLSA) [2] to iden-
tify the distinct “topics”, do additional clustering on the en-
tire topic vectors, and select the “signiﬁcant” cluster as the
representative results for this geographic region. In addition,
with the help of on-line map service, we have implemented
a map-based browser to show selected representative pho-
tos for understanding of diﬀerences regarding appearances
of generic object concepts over the world.

Please refer to [4] for the detail.

3. EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS

To test and verify if our approach works in practice, we
conducted preliminary experiments with photos collected di-
rectly from Flickr. In the experiments, we used seven “ob-
ject” concepts and two “scene” concepts including “noodle”,
“wedding cake”, “ﬂower”, ”castle”, “car”, “waterfall” and
“beach”. For each concept, we collected about 2000 most
relevant geotagged photos distributed evenly in the world
wide areas. The precision of raw photos of these seven con-
cepts is 43% on average, which is deﬁned as (# relevant
images)/(# all images). After “Filtering Stage”, it was im-
proved to 80%, which indicated that noise removal was ef-
fective.

We show the representative photos selected for several rep-
resentative regions, while these regions were generated auto-
matically based on geographic locations of the most relevant
photos selected in the “Filtering Stage”. Figure 2 and Figure
3 show the results for the concept “noodle”, each of which
presents the most representative photos generated for the
approximate regions: Japan and Europe. Without doubt,
these results can help us understand about the “noodle”
in these local areas. For example, Figure 2 demonstrates
many “ramen” photos in Japan and Figure 3 demonstrates
“spaghetti” photos in the European area. In addition, South
East Asia, Mideast US and Western US are obtained as
other representative regions, representative photos of which
also have characteristics such as “noodles” in the South East
Asia area containing some Taiwanese style noodles and spicy
Thai noodles.

Figure 4 and Figure 5 correspond to “wedding cake” in
Europe and in Mid US, respectively. We can ﬁnd many of
the wedding cakes in Mid US are much taller than ones in
Europe.

For the scene concept “waterfall”, we extracted the repre-
sentative photos for four large regions: Asia, Europe, North
America, and South America. From the results, we can ﬁnd
that waterfalls in South America seem to be more powerful,
while waterfalls in the Asian area are somehow more beau-
tiful. Such kinds of implications would be helpful in guiding
travels around the world.

To see more results, please visit the following website:

http://img.cs.uec.ac.jp/yanai/ASRP/ .
4. CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE WORK
In this paper, we present a novel topic which is for the
purpose of generating representative photographs for typi-
cal regions in the world for mining cultural diﬀerences on
the given concepts, and provide an approach to achieve it
with the help of geotagged collections. The results help us
understand how objects or scenes associated with the same

Figure 2: ”Noodle” in Japan. Chinese-style noodle
“ramen” is popular.

Figure 3: ”Noodle” in Europe. Most of photos are
“Spaghetti”.

Figure 4: ”Wedding cake” in Mid US. Tall cakes are
common. This is ﬁve-layered.

Figure 5: ”Wedding cake” in Europe. They are
much shorter and simpler than US.

concept are diﬀerent depending on local regions in the world
visually.

For future work, we plan to make extensive experiments
for more concepts from a larger set of photos, and think
out some other strategies in detecting more representative
regions with a more precise scope. In addition, we will con-
duct some quantitative evaluations on the representative-
ness of the photos selected for the corresponding region and
the diﬀerences of the tendency of representative photo sets
among diﬀerent local regions.
5. REFERENCES
[1] G. Csurka, C. Bray, C. Dance, and L. Fan. Visual

categorization with bags of keypoints. In Proc. of ECCV
Workshop on Statistical Learning in Computer Vision,
pages 59–74, 2004.

[2] T. Hofmann. Unsupervised learning by probabilistic latent

semantic analysis. Machine Learning, 43:177–196, 2001.

[3] L. Kennedy and M. Naaman. Generating diverse and

representative image search results for landmarks. In Proc.
of the International World Wide Web Conference, pages
297–306, 2008.

[4] B. Qiu and K. Yanai. Objects over the world. In Proc. of

Paciﬁc-Rim Conference on Multimedia, pages 296–305,
2008.

WWW 2009 MADRID!Poster Sessions: Friday, April 24, 20091174