WS3 - International Workshop on Context-Enabled Source

and Service Selection, Integration and Adaptation

(CSSSIA 2008)

Quan Z. Sheng

School of Computer Science
The University of Adelaide
Adelaide, SA 5005, Australia

qsheng@cs.adelaide.edu.au

Ullas Nambiar

IBM India Research Lab

Institutional Area, Vasant Kunj
ubnambiar@in.ibm.com

New Delhi, India

Amit P. Sheth

College of Engi. & Comp. Sci.

Wright State University

Dayton, OH, USA

amit.sheth@wright.edu

Biplav Srivastava

IBM India Research Lab

Institutional Area, Vasant Kunj

New Delhi, India

sbiplav@in.ibm.com

Zakaria Maamr
College of Info. Tech.
Zayed University

Dubai, UAE

zakaria.maamar@zu.ac.ae

College of Info. Tech.

Said Elnaffar
UAE University

Al-Ain, UAE

elnaffar@uaeu.ac.ae

ABSTRACT
This write-up provides a summary of the International Work-
shop on Context enabled Source and Service Selection, In-
tegration and Adaptation (CSSSIA 2008), organized in con-
junction with WWW 2008, at Beijing, China on April 22nd
2008. We outline the motivation for organizing the work-
shop, brieﬂy describe the organizational details and program
of the workshop, and summarize each of the papers accepted
by the workshop. More information about the workshop can
be found at http://www.cs.adelaide.edu.au/∼csssia08/.

Categories and Subject Descriptors
H.3.5 [Information Systems]: Online Information Ser-
vices—Web-based services; H.2.8 [Information Systems]:
Database applications

General Terms
Design, Management

Keywords
Context awareness, Web service, service and data integra-
tion

1. WORKSHOP GOALS

Context awareness refers to the capability of an applica-
tion or a service being aware of its physical environment
or situation (i.e., context) and responding proactively and
intelligently based on such awareness [1]. With recent devel-
opments in computer hardware, software, networking, and
sensor technologies, context awareness becomes one of the
most exciting trends in computing today that holds the po-
tential to make our daily life more productive, convenient,
and enjoyable.

Service integration has the purpose of providing the ﬁnal
user with a single uniﬁed service, hiding the distribution and

Copyright is held by the author/owner(s).
WWW 2008, April 21–25, 2008, Beijing, China.
ACM 978-1-60558-085-2/08/04.

heterogeneity of the services provided by the autonomous
providers. Generally, service integration approaches have fo-
cused more on process modeling and execution aspects than
on data integration, while the latter is often the most crucial
determiner of successful integration in practice. Through
the use of context, a new generation of Web services (i.e.,
context-aware Web services) is expected to arise for the ben-
eﬁt of coping with the dynamic nature of the Internet. For
instance, the best service provider in terms of quality guar-
antees and cost metrics would diﬀer from time to time. A
composite service provider must therefore regularly change
the services invoked to provide the best service to his cus-
tomers. The task of identifying the best service to invoke
is the biggest challenge to overcome and necessitates tech-
niques for detecting data and functionality changes in a ser-
vice, methods for assessing the quality of the service, com-
puting the cost of invocation etc.

Although the combination of context awareness and Web
service composition sounds appealing, injecting context into
adaptive service integration and management raises a num-
ber of signiﬁcant challenges, which have not been widely rec-
ognized or addressed by the Web services community. Some
of them are: a) how to build a model of change: data, pro-
cess and environment? b) how, when and where to track
the provenance of data and meta-data? c) how to deﬁne
and use eﬀective and practical metrics to manage adapta-
tion: how to compare ability of diﬀerent services to adapt?
How to compare diﬀerent middleware? d) what is the role
of context and how to get the right one?

The objective of CSSSIA 2008 is to provide a forum for
researchers and practitioners to exchange new ideas, devel-
opments, and experiences on the key technical challenges
for deployment of context-enabled, adaptive Web services
and integrated applications. Discussions focus on where the
state of the art is and where the challenges lie, and what
practices are needed to enable and sustain a bright future of
this research area.

2. WORKSHOP ORGANIZATION

The Organizing Committee of CSSSIA 2008 consists of

1263WWW 2008 / Workshop Summary April 21-25, 2008 · Beijing, Chinarequirement context such as timed and business relations
among process tasks.

Web service integration is an important technology for
the eﬀective automation of application-to-application col-
laborations. The paper by Harney and Doshi Speeding Up
Web Service Composition with Volatile External Informa-
tion, reports a novel method called informed-presumptive
for fast composing Web services in the presence of external
volatile information. Segev in Circular Context-Based Se-
mantic Matching to Identify Web Service Composition, de-
scribes a work-in-progress that focuses on a new technique
for identifying the composibility of two Web services based
on contextual similarity. Han et al.
in A New Aggregation
Policy for RSS Services, describe an aggregation algorithm
for minimizing the number of missing postings within an
aggregation of RSS (Rich Site Summary) services. The pa-
per by Leung et al. Toward A Model of Service Interaction
Enabler in Mobile Environment,
looks at the problem of
context-based service interactions in mobile environments.
It presents a device capability model for capturing the ca-
pability of a mobile device and an approach for analyzing
the interaction possibility between devices.

The papers accepted at CSSSIA 2008 cover a wide range
of topics in context-aware service selection, integration, and
adaptation and present some of the key directions in this re-
search area. Although many of these papers represent early
results of ongoing research activities, the work reported in
these papers and the research issues raised there make sig-
niﬁcant contributions in leading to broader discussions on
the research and development of context-aware services and
applications. We hope the set of selected papers provides
the community with a better understanding of the current
directions and areas to focus in future.

4. ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

We would like to thank all the program committee mem-
bers who helped us organize the workshop and for providing
very useful and thoughtful feedback to the authors. We
would also like to thank all the authors who submitted their
papers to the workshop; they provided us with an excellent
workshop program. A very special thanks to the WWW
2008 organization committees for helping with the logistics
of the workshop.

5. REFERENCES
[1] G. D. Abowd, M. Ebling, G. Hunt, H. Lei, and H.-W.
Gellersen. Context-Aware Computing. IEEE Pervasive
Computing, 1(3):22–23, 2002.

[2] Q. Z. Sheng, U. Nambiar, A. P. Sheth, B. Srivastava,

Z. Maamar, and S. Elnaﬀar. Proc. of the Intl.
Workshop on Context enabled Source and Service
Selection, Integration and Adaptation (CSSSIA’08).
Beijing, China, April 2008.

Quan Z. Sheng, Ullas Nambiar, Amit Sheth, Biplav Srivas-
tava, Zakaria Maamar, and Said Elnaﬀar. The Technical
Program Committee includes 29 internationally active re-
searchers in this area.

The call-for-papers (CFP) of CSSSIA 2008 has been widely
circulated in the research community. There were thirteen
papers submitted from twelve diﬀerent countries. All the
submissions were of high quality and presented many in-
teresting aspects of Web service discovery, composition and
use. Each paper was reviewed by at least three members of
the Program Committee. Based on the reviews and the sub-
sequent discussions, the international Program Committee
eventually selected six full papers and three short papers.
It is our intention to select a suﬃcient number of papers
that would cover, as wide as possible, the majority of core
research domains targeted by CSSSIA 2008. The workshop
proceedings is published as an ACM International Confer-
ence Proceeding Series (AICPS) volume [2], which is avail-
able at the ACM Digital Library.

3. WORKSHOP PROGRAM

Prof. Schahram Dustdar from the Vienna University of
Technology, Austria gives the keynote speech titled Research
Challenges in Designing Complex Autonomic Service-Orien-
ted Systems. In his talk, Prof. Dustdar focuses on the in-
creasing need for business processes and software services
to attain higher degrees of autonomic, context-aware, and
self-adaptive behavior due to the increasing complexity and
interdependence of computing devices with the underlying
information systems, as well as processes involving humans
and software services. He highlights the main research chal-
lenges for this class of problems and presents the current
state in building the required novel conceptual abstractions
as well as needed technological implementations and valida-
tions.

Apart from the keynote speech, the program features four
sessions. The ﬁrst three sessions are structured to include
presentations by the authors of the accepted papers, followed
by a group discussion. The last session is devoted to a panel
discussion of important research issues of context-aware ser-
vice selection, integration, and adaptation.

Finding desired Web services is crucial to the success of
many Web services applications. Ma and Zhang in Eﬃ-
ciently Finding Web Services Using a Clustering Seman-
tic Approach, present a two-phase approach for eﬃciently
detecting Web services. The paper by Dietze et al.
ti-
tled Enabling Context-aware Semantic Web Service Discov-
ery through Conceptual Situation Spaces, proposes Concep-
tual Situation Spaces (CSS) to capture situational contexts
of Web services. CSS are mapped to standardized seman-
tic Web service (SWS) representations such as Web Service
Modelling Ontology (WSMO) to enable the context-aware
discovery of Web services. In Using Context to Enable Se-
mantic Mediation in Web Service Communities, Mrissa et
al., address the problem of semantic heterogeneity between
member Web services and service communities by propos-
ing a semantic mediation mechanism. Herssens et al. intro-
duce a service selection framework based on Quality of Ser-
vice (QoS) considerations in Using QoS with Multi-Criteria
Methods to Lead Service Selection. The paper by Yu et
al. Composite Process Oriented Service Discovery with Pre-
serving Business and Timed Relation, addresses the service
selection for composite processes by considering particular

1264WWW 2008 / Workshop Summary April 21-25, 2008 · Beijing, China