eBag - A Ubiquitous Web Infrastructure for Nomadic

Learning

Christina Brodersen, Bent G. Christensen, Kaj Grønbæk,

Christian Dindler, Balasuthas Sundararajah

Interactive Spaces, ISIS Katrinebjerg

University of Aarhus

Aabogade 34

8200 Aarhus N, Denmark

{sorsha,bentor,kgronbak,dindler,suthas}@interactivespaces.net

ABSTRACT
This paper describes the eBag infrastructure, which is a
generic infrastructure inspired from work with school chil-
dren who could beneﬁt from a electronic schoolbag for col-
laborative handling of their digital material. The eBag in-
frastructure is utilizing the Context-aware HyCon frame-
work and collaborative web services based on WebDAV. A
ubiquitous login and logout mechanism has been built based
on BlueTooth sensor networks. The eBag infrastructure has
been tried out in ﬁeld tests with school kids. In this paper
we discuss experiences and design issues for ubiquitous Web
integration in interactive school environments with multi-
ple interactive whiteboards and workstations. This includes
proposals for specialized and adaptive XLink structures for
organizing school materials as well as issues in login/logout
based on proximity of diﬀerent display surfaces.

Categories and Subject Descriptors
H.5.4 [Information Interfaces and Presentation]: Hy-
permedia

General Terms
Hypermedia, Education

Keywords
eBag, WebDAV, HyCon, XLink, Context-aware, Adaptive

1.

INTRODUCTION

Web technologies are currently in widespread use for dis-
tributed e-Learning [10, 20, 26] giving students and pupils
collaborative access to shared learning resources while be-
ing physically remote from the school environment. How-
ever, so far there has been only little research in supporting
children at school with Web technologies.
In the Center
for Interactive Spaces, we are developing Web technologies
that become ubiquitous in the physical environment of the
school.

With CoolTown [5], Hewlett-Packard presents their vi-
sion for pervasive computing where homes, schools, work-
Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Com-
mittee (IW3C2). Distribution of these papers is limited to classroom use,
and personal use by others.
WWW 2005, May 10-14, 2005, Chiba, Japan.
ACM 1-59593-046-9/05/0005.

places and life in general is digitally enhanced and con-
nected through the World Wide Web. Small, mobile de-
vices provide fast access to, e.g., presentation material (the
CoolTown video shows a business woman “beaming” her
presentation material up on a large, digital wall display) and
makes studying fun (represented in the video by a little girl
who is learning Spanish through a voice-activated program
she has downloaded to her wrist watch). But, the CoolTown
vision also assumes a lack of privacy that is quite disturb-
ing, e.g., exempliﬁed by the same little girl using a public
display on the refrigerator to receive a message from her
teacher and consequently getting her test scores broadcast
on it, or Bob who is loudly and repeatedly congratulated
by the technology he comes into contact with because he
has received a reward. The vision also lacks a fundamental
technical soundness that makes the underlying infrastruc-
ture for the “wired world” they describe believable. How-
ever, we agree with the basic idea of being able to move and
access digital material through a number of heterogeneous
technologies that allow users to choose the tool they ﬁnd
most useful in the given context; a vision quite similar to
Mark Weiser’s concept of ubiquitous computing [32].

From our studies [7, 22, 27] of school activities we see
that learning becomes more project oriented and nomadic
in the sense, that pupils spend their daily life as “nomads”
in transit between many physical places (“oases”) such as
classrooms, labs, workshops, libraries, museums, the city,
nature, clubs and at home. Carrying a heavy portable PC
between all these places is often problematic: It is vulnera-
ble, the PC may be lost or stolen. It is cumbersome, in that
it needs to be turned on, reconnected and logged onto the
network every time the pupils move between the oases. As
an alternative to this we are developing a Web based port-
folio system with seamless proximity based login from all
interactive surfaces in the physical school environment. The
system is called the eBag system - associating to an elec-
tronic schoolbag. The eBag system supports nomadic and
project oriented learning characterized by ongoing produc-
tion of material anywhere depending on the tools and mate-
rials at hand. The eBag system is integrated in the physical
environment of the school supporting collaborative learn-
ing (CSCL) in both distributed and co-located groups. The
eBag system takes advantage of our previous work on mobile
and context-aware hypermedia, the HyCon (HyperContext)
framework ([8, 18]). The HyCon architecture includes inter-

faces for a sensor layer encapsulating, e.g., GPS, Bluetooth,
RFID and other sensor technologies. HyCon represents the
hypermedia objects in structures based on the XLink and
RDF standards. The HyConExplorer client supports classi-
cal hypermedia features such as browsing, searching, anno-
tating, linking, and collaboration in context-aware hyperme-
dia. HyConExplorer runs on both cell phones and ordinary
PC platforms, it integrates GPS devices and takes advantage
of GPRS and other IP based cellular networks. The integra-
tion of the eBag system with HyCon makes it easy to include
resources being produced in outdoor contexts into the eBag
system, moreover, it supports the sharing of common hy-
permedia data structures. The eBag system prototype has
been developed in Java and it is running as a Web start
application which can easily be distributed to many work-
stations and interactive whiteboards in a school setting. The
system has been tried out by several school classes both in
our lab and in a ﬁeld test at a local school. Although the
eBag system has been developed for the school domain, we
see many prospects in supporting nomadic work and learn-
ing activities in other domains such as hospitals, engineering
companies and a rich variety of other workplaces. The pa-
per is organized as follows: Section 2 describes a scenario
of eBag use in a school environmnet. Section 3 presents the
eBag infrastructure, datamodel, and applications. Section
4 discusess related work. Section 5 makes status on current
work and future work. Section 6 concludes the paper.

2.

eBAG USE SETTING

The eBag can be seen as a digital counterpart to each
pupil’s physical school bag. It serves as a link between dif-
ferent types of displays, through which its contents can be
seamlessly accessed, and allows the pupils to collect, carry,
access, and share digital information very easily. In the fol-
lowing we outline a use scenario illustrating the eBag in an
educational setting.

It is Monday morning and the pupils of 8th Grade are
gathering in the classroom. Today they are doing a project
entitled “Our Town” with the purpose of investigating how
the city of Aarhus has changed during the last 100 years.
The pupils are to collect material in the form of pictures,
video, and interviews from locations around the city and
present this to the rest of the class at the end of the day. As
the pupils enter the classroom their individual eBags emerge
on the interactive board.

Before starting the project work they discuss in plenum
the day’s work and the pupils choose diﬀerent topics relating
to the general theme. The teacher divides the pupils into
groups by dragging together the eBags on the interactive
board. When the eBags are grouped, a shared project folder
is created where the group members may store the links,
pictures, video, and documents gathered during the project.
In advance, the teacher has prepared some concrete as-
signments and inspirational material to get the groups start-
ed on the project. The teacher opens his eBag on the interac-
tive display and ﬁnds the assignments. After discussing the
links and assignments in plenum, the teacher puts the ma-
terial in the pupils’ eBags by dragging it onto the icons rep-
resenting the groups. The material is automatically placed
in the shared project folder of each of the eBags. The mate-
rial is assigned to the speciﬁc project folder by evaluating a
range of variable properties, e.g., time of day, teacher/pupil
relationship, physical location, and class schedule.

Figure 1: Pupils working with the eBag on a large
display in the school library.

Before setting out to collect material the individual groups
gather around the interactive displays located around the
school to discuss which locations to visit and who to inter-
view. As the groups members approach the display their
eBags emerge. They gather relevant background material
from the Internet concerning their speciﬁc topic as seen in
Figure 1. When the group is done preparing they collect all
their material in the shared project folder of the eBag and
set out to visit the diﬀerent locations in the city. As they
leave their eBags disappear from the display.

The pupils are equipped with mobile phones capable of
taking pictures as well as making audio and video recordings.
They visit diﬀerent parts of the city, interviewing museum
custodians and local business vendors and taking pictures
of streets and building as they look today. As interviews
and recordings are made these are saved directly from the
phone into the eBag. Such an interview session could look
like presented in Figure 2.

Figure 2: Project work in the ﬁeld with interviews.

Having conducted their interviews and taken pictures of
the diﬀerent locations, the group returns to the school in
order to ﬁnish their presentation. At the school they once
again gather around an interactive display to view the pic-
tures and listen to the interviews collected during the day
from the shared project folder in their eBags. As they be-
gin to prepare their presentation they search for additional
material for some of the locations they have visited. One
of the group members goes to the school library to ﬁnd a
book containing pictures of Aarhus 100 years ago. Having
found the book he sits down at the computer and watches
his eBag appear on the screen. He scans the pictures, puts

of a database in our case a MySQL1 database for storage of
eBag proﬁle information. This proﬁle information includes
an ID of the eBag, name of the owner, a password, a URL
to an icon for the eBag (typically a picture of the owner),
a BlueTooth ID registered for the eBag, and more. Besides
the proﬁle information of an eBag the actual content of an
eBag such as digital pictures, video, music, text documents
also has to stored in a content repository. This is handled
by a WebDAV server2, providing storage capabilities and
mechanisms for ﬁle locking and versioning.
In the Server
layer a Data layer component encapsulates functionality for
creating new eBag proﬁles or modifying existing ones in the
persistent storage. The Data layer component implements
a WebService interface, thus communication to the compo-
nent is through SOAP messages. A WebDAV access com-
ponent is also present in this layer as it is implemented as a
Java servlet. To collect sensed contextual information from
the BlueTooth sensors (known as BlipNodes) we use a cen-
tral server (known as BlipServer3) in the Server layer. An
advantage of using a central server to collect the sensed in-
formation is that a uniform interface for accessing this in-
formation is provided independent of the sensor hardware
used, and queries throughout the sensed information from
all sensors can easily be supported. In the Terminal layer
three applications forming the eBag suite are found. The
eBag Daemon is the basic application that presents an eBag
icon on a display when a BlueTooth device registered for
this eBag is discovered nearby. When clicking on the eBag
icon the content of the eBag is opened in a new window
ready for retrieval or storing of digital material. Further-
more the eBagExplorer application provides an “oﬄine” ac-
cess to eBags by showing all eBags in the system by their
icons in a list. When clicking on an eBag icon the eBag
is only opened if the password given is valid according to
the eBag proﬁle information. The eBagAdmin application
is very similar to the eBagExplorer. However the password
protection is removed from each eBag to a single login when
starting the application. This application is only intended
to be used by an administrator or a supporter of the eBags.
In the Sensor layer of the eBag infrastructure the BlipN-
ode BlueTooth sensors are placed. As mentioned above the
sensed information from these sensors is collected by the
BlipServer in the Server layer from which the eBag applica-
tions can access the sensed information. The reason for us-
ing the BlipNode hardware is the facility it oﬀers to regulate
the signal power of the BlueTooth unit. Thus discovery of
nearby BlueTooth units of a BlipNode can be conﬁgured to
reach a certain distances from a few centimeters to approx-
imately 20 meters. This allows a setup where a BlipNode,
that is conﬁgured to discover BlueTooth units in a distance
of, e.g., 2 meters, can be placed nearby a screen display of
a computer running the eBag Daemon application, and in
this way show eBag icons of nearby BlueTooth units.

3.1 The eBag Datamodel Based on XLink

The eBag can be described as a link composite locating
the pupils’ resources into a single structure. A proposal

1http://www.mysql.com
2We use the Jakarta Slide WebDAV implementation. http:
//jakarta.apache.org/slide/
3The BlipNodes hardware and BlipServer software is de-
veloped by the company BlipSystems.
http://www.
blipsystems.com

Figure 3: The eBag service presented in the logical
layers of the HyCon architecture.

them in the eBag and returns to the rest of the group. When
the group has ﬁnished their presentation they return to the
classroom. As they present their project they share the pic-
tures, videos and interviews collected during the day with
the rest of the class.

The scenario illustrates the eBag in an educational setting
using the seamless login as students move between locations
inside and outside the school. In the next section we describe
the eBag infrastructure and the XLink based datamodel.

3.

eBAG INFRASTRUCTURE

The eBag infrastructure is build upon the HyCon frame-
work and architecture [8]. The HyCon framework and ar-
chitecture for context-aware mobile hypermedia was devel-
oped to provide a general platform suited for experiments
with hypermedia mechanisms in a context-aware and mo-
bile environment as described in detail in [8]. The HyCon
architecture consists of four layers: Storage, Server, Termi-
nal, and Sensor. The bottom layer, the Storage layer, han-
dles persistent storage. The Server layer oﬀers components
handling data manipulaion in the storage layer and compu-
tations upon the storage layer data. The functionalities of
these components are oﬀered through services, which are re-
alised as Web Services and Java servlets. Through these in-
terfaces applications in the Terminal layer can communicate
with the services in the Server layer. Applications in the Ter-
minal layer are not limited to a speciﬁc platform, but may
be running on a variety of hardware platforms and software
environments (phones, tablets, laptops, Web browsers). The
key property of the HyCon framework is the top layer, the
Sensor layer. This layer is introduced to logically group all
sensors deployed to obtain contextual information.

The eBag service is realised by components in all four lay-
ers of the HyCon framework and architecture as seen in Fig-
ure 3. Starting from the bottom, the storage layer consists

SensorTerminalServerStorageMySQLWebDAVData LayerWebDAV APIBlip ServerBlip NodeseBag DaemoneBag AdmineBag ExplorerSOAPCGISMS gateway<ebag xlink:type="extended"\

xlink:role="http://fahbentor.daimi.au.dk/ebag"\
id="ebag_ID">

<!-- Basic profile information-->
<profile>

<btid>Bluetooth ID</btid>
<name>eBag name</name>
<icon href="..."/>
<password>password</password>
<message>eBag Message</message>

</profile>

<repositories>

<!-- WebDav repository -->
<repository name="webdav" xlink:title="WebDav"\

xlink:type="locator" xlink:href="..."\
username="..." password="..."\
xlink:label="webdav"/>

<!-- HyCon trails repository -->
<repository name="hycon" xlink:title="HyCon"\

xlink:type="locator" xlink:href="..."\
username="..." password="..."\
xlnk:label="hycon"/>

...

</repositories>

<!-- List of friends’ eBags -->
<friends>

<friend xlink:title="Friend’s name" xlink:type="locator"\

xlink:href="..."/>

...

</friends>

<!-- Digital eBag contexts -->
<ebagcontexts>

<ebagcontext xlink:type="locator"\

xlink:href="#xptr(id("ebagcontext1"))"/>

...

</ebagcontexts>

</ebag>

Figure 4: The eBag datamodel expressed as an
XLink structure.

for a link format in XLink [11] is presented in Figure 4.
The main ebag element has the XLink attribute xlink:role
which identiﬁes the structure as an eBag structure, and de-
ﬁnes the semantics for the repositories, and friends. The
profile element is an optional element which may contain
as many properties of the eBag proﬁle as wanted; however,
eBag applications are not required to implement support
for all of these properties. The repository element is the
element to describe which resources or respositories to in-
tegrate in the eBag. If further conﬁguration of how access
to a certain repository is needed, this information can be
supplied via additional attributes in the element. Finally, a
list of friends and links to their eBags can be expressed by
the friend elements. With the list of friends and links to
their eBags, an eBag application could easily allow a pupil
to follow the link to a friend’s eBag or even integrate it, so,
e.g., the friend’s eBag status message was shown. With the
ebagcontext elements, context views on the eBag resources
can be included.

By describing the eBag as an XLink structure a light
weight version af the eBag application can be supported by
transforming the XLink structure with an XSL [2] stylesheet.

This could be used to produce a Web version (or other plat-
form speciﬁc versions) of the eBag applications and thus
support easy migration between platforms for the pupils.
The idea of supporting a wide variety of platforms is ul-
timately to allow the pupils to access their resources from
anywhere.

3.2 Adaptivity of the eBag Based on Context
A certain degree of adaptivity is an important aspect of
use of the eBag. Taking advantage of the current context
when placing and retrieving information provides the teach-
ers and pupils with another sense of seamless interaction
with the digital material. Thus when the physics teacher
wants to distribute a new project folder about Ohm’s law
to the entire class an Ohm’s Law sub-folder is created in
the individual pupil’s physics folder. The teacher can also
add additional material for the weaker students and more
challenging assignments for the stronger students and thus
support a diﬀerentiated teaching strategy. Naturally, the
teacher has no access rights to the eBag in general but it is
vital that she can add material that is placed in the right
context in order to avoid material getting lost in a general
”inbox”. The pupil can grant access to the teacher and other
students for diﬀerent folders in diﬀerent contexts.

An eBag context element (ebagcontext) should deﬁne a
set of resources from the eBag, and a set of conditions which
have to be met for the eBag context view to be active. The
conditions are then evaluated by a context interpreter which
have access to context information such as schedules for
pupils and teachers, locations of eBags and more low level
information such as time of day, outside temperature, and
more. This model is inspired by the Context Toolkit [12].
When an eBag context view becomes active, the pupil would
be able to open the view of associated resources. This could
be visualised in the eBag applications with an eBag con-
text indicator icon, that would open the active view when
clicked.

An example of an eBag context deﬁnition can be seen
in Figure 5. Notice that it is an XLink structure with the
xlink:role attribute set. This deﬁnes the semantics for the
elements default-store and resource. The conditions
element contains an address for the context interpreter to
be used and the conditions that should be evaluated by it.
When all the conditions are met (logical and between con-
ditions), the context interpreter sends a notiﬁcation back to
the eBag application, notiﬁyng that the eBag context is ac-
tive. A notiﬁcation to inactivate the eBag context is also
send from the context interpreter when one or more condi-
tions evaluates to false. The default-store element points
into a repository from the eBag, and is used when the eBag
context view is not opened, but active, and a resource is
dragged upon the indicator icon of the active eBag context.
The resource elements locates the resources associated with
the eBag context, and which are made accessible to the pupil
when the eBag context is active. This approach is similar
to the generic link structure and context-aware linking de-
scribed in [13, 15]

3.3 eBag Applications

As described earlier, the Terminal layer of the eBag infra-
structure contains the eBag applications. These applications
are the tools which pupils interact with when equipped with
an eBag and want to change proﬁle information or content

<ebagcontext name="Physics project" xlink:type="extended"\

id="ebagcontext1"\
xlink:role="http://fahbentor.daimi.au.dk/ebagcontext"/>

<conditions contextinterpreter="http://...">

<condition name="Physics is on the schedule"\

expression="schedule(pupil1,time) = physics"/>

<condition name="Group gathered"\

expression="group = {ebag_ID1,ebag_ID2}"/>

...

</conditions>

<default-store xlink:type="locator" xlink:href="#XPointeExpr1"\

repository="webdav"/>

<view>

<resource xlink:type="locator" xlink:href="#XPointerExpr2"\

repository="webdav"/>

<resource xlink:type="locator" xlink:href="#XPointerExpr3"\

repository="hycon"/>

<resource xlink:type="locator"\

xlink:href="http://www.physicsclassroom.com"/>

</view>

</ebagcontext>

Figure 5: The eBag context datamodel expressed as
an XLink structure.

of their eBags. The eBag Daemon application shows the
eBag icons of registered BlueTooth devices nearby a prese-
lected BlueTooth sensor. An example of how eBag icons are
presented is depicted for the eBags of two pupils Trine and
Monica in Figure 6. The eBag icon has the proﬁle name at
the top, the associated proﬁle picture in the middle and can
have a message if supplied at the bottom.

Figure 7: The eBagExplorer with a list of eBag
icons.

Figure 6: The eBag icons for Trine and Monica’s
eBag.

The eBagExplorer is an “oﬄine” browser for eBags, in
that all eBags are accessible even if they are not in proxim-
ity of a sensor. This allows a more traditional login mecha-
nism where a pupil can ﬁnd her own eBag icon from the list
and open her eBag by password authenticating herself. A
screenshot of an eBagExplorer is shown in Figure 7, where
the eBag icons are listed together with the proﬁle name and
an optional awareness message.

As described earlier an eBag is opened when a pupil clicks
either on the eBag icon shown by the eBag Daemon or in the
eBagExplorer list. The eBag is visualised by creating a new
window showing the contents of the eBag in a hierarchical
structure, as can be seen in Figure 8.

These applications can be running on various platforms,
aﬀording diﬀerent kinds of interaction. The platforms and
display types that we have currently used range from tablet-

Figure 8: Trine’s eBag opened.

PC, laptop, and desktop computers with screen display,
SmartBoard display, and ﬂoor projection.

3.4 Seamless Login to eBag Resources

A key feature of the eBag infrastructure is the deployment
of sensors to provide a proximity based login and logout
mechanism to the eBag. As the BlueTooth sensor hardware
allows the signal power to be adjusted, we can conﬁgure the
signal power to reach only a certain distance. This is a valu-
able property because we are then able to fairly accurately
(∼1 meter) control the extend of the area where a BlueTooth
unit is discovered (login) by a sensor and equally important
when a BlueTooth unit is not discovered anymore (logout).
The login procedure begins when a BlueTooth unit is discov-
ered. The BlueTooth ID is used to lookup an eBag proﬁle
with this ID registered, and if found the pupil is logged in
and the eBag icon is presented. Thus, a pupil can get instant
access to her eBag resources, just by walking (with a Blue-
Tooth unit in her pocket) up to a display (with a sensor)
and click on her eBag icon. Issues dealing with proximity
based login and instant access to resources have also been
discussed in [3, 4, 30].

may support the teaching in elementary schools, with partic-
ular focus on collaborative project work where the children
are actively engaged in knowledge production.
4.1 Web Based Learning Systems

Web support for learning has been on the agenda in the
computer supported learning communities (CSCL, EdMe-
dia) for many years. However, many Web based learning
systems are focusing on supporting distributed learning (as
opposed to supporting the concept of local mobility pre-
sented in [6]) and introducing a primarily administrative
system for sharing documents and awareness about classes
and group work ([10, 17, 20, 26]). With the eBag focus is
on the ubiquitous aspects of web support in learning envi-
ronments that let the digital information travel seamlessly
across technological platforms. In the following we will dis-
cuss some of these solutions in relation to the eBag concept.
An example of a web based learning system that calls
itself a digital school bag is the Norwegian system, Fronter
which is used in several Danish high schools4. Fronter is a
Web based conference system not unlike First-Class (which
also forms the basis for Uni-C’s school portal, SkoleKom).
With Fronter, the teacher can create a virtual building which
is separated into rooms in which pupils and teachers can
collaborate with diﬀerent tools on diﬀerent subjects. Fronter
is basically an administrative system that allows the teacher
to, e.g., open and lock rooms or folders in which pupils hand
in their assignments.
If the paper has not been uploaded
on time, the teacher will know. However, Fronter does not
support diﬀerentiated teaching and it cannot support the
social structures that are essential to the pupils in order
to function well as a virtual community.
It may use the
metaphor of building a house, but it is a space rather than
a place [19].

Some Web based learning environments, however, take a
quite diﬀerent approach to teaching and learning by intro-
ducing elements of gaming rather than focusing on provid-
ing the student/pupil with administrative tools. One such is
Case/Melved by Learning Lab Denmark5, an excellent and
very compelling Web based role-playing game for the 7–10
grade [25]. As forensic detectives, the pupils are required to
use many of the school’s facilities, e.g., physics and chem-
istry, to analyse clues and ultimately solve the murder case.
Naturally, Case/Melved has a much more limited scope with
respect to how it may be used at what it can contain, com-
pared to some of the previously mentioned systems, but it
presents an interesting new focus for introducing Web based
learning systems in education. However, the game design is
not concerned with how the students can carry the digital
information with them to the labs or how they can take
advantage of the current context.
4.2 Use of Mobile Technology in Teaching

When we look at how mobile technology has been intro-
duced in education, we discover that many systems focus
on introducing mobile technology to support a traditional
classroom type teaching in ([1, 28]) and outside ([9]) of the
classroom. A possible explanation for this is that a consid-
erable number of the projects are dealing with higher educa-
tion [16, 29] and the predominant lecture format for teaching
at universities. The Ambient Wood project [31] presents a

Figure 9: Trine and Monica have formed a group by
dragging their eBag icons close together.

3.5 Collaboration Support

The eBag supports project work by allowing eBags to form
groups in which the distribution and sharing of material
becomes very easy. By dragging two or more eBag icons
close together, a group is formed. When doing this, a group
name is prompted for and a shared group folder is created,
which all the members of the group have access to from
their eBags. The eBag icons are now assembled into a group
icon, where each eBag icon is included. An example of this
where Trine and Monica have formed a group can be seen
in Figure 9.

To put the result of an assignment in the form of, e.g., a
text document to the eBag, the pupils can drag and drop
ﬁles to an opened eBag into a speciﬁc folder in the eBag
hierarchi. This can also be accomplished by dragging and
dropping ﬁles directly to the eBag icons. This feature is
also supported by the grouped eBag icons. Thus a teacher
can easily delegate, e.g., new assignments or evaluations to
a whole group at once without having to open each pupil’s
eBag.
3.6 Adaptability for Awareness

As brieﬂy mentioned above an awareness message can be
attached to an eBag, and will then be displayed together
with the eBag icon. The message functionality is used by
the pupils to communicate what they are doing or where
they are, e.g., “Taking the bus back to the school at 11
o’clock” or “Visiting The Old Town - going to the town hall
at 10”. This is particularly useful on ﬁeld trips as a means
of asynchronous communication with other group members
or teachers back at the school. The message can be set
either from an opened eBag or by sending it as an SMS
from a mobile phone to the SMS gateway. Thus by providing
this simple message functionality an awareness between the
pupils is accomplished.

Another mechanism to increase the awareness of the pro-
gress of each other’s work in a project group, is a notiﬁcation
service. As our primary resource repository for the eBag is
a WebDAV store, we are interested in support for notiﬁca-
tions from the WebDAV server when actions are performed
on resources in the store. Only recently support for this
mechanism for WebDAV has been investigated and imple-
mented by, e.g., the AwareDAV framework [23].

4. RELATED WORK

In the following, we will discuss how Web based learning
systems and the introduction of mobile technology has and

4See http://fronter.dk
5http://www.lld.dk/

notable exception to that rule with their ﬁne example of
how we may move education out of the classroom. Their
goal was to provide students with contextually-relevant dig-
ital information that would support them in discussing and
reﬂecting on what they were doing and learning

We acknowledge the importance of supporting reﬂected
learning but we also see a great need and great possibilities
in supporting constructive contextual feedback from the stu-
dents, allowing them to produce material that is tied to the
current activity and location.

[14] presents some interesting pedagogically-founded per-
spectives on how mobile technology may support the natural
science subjects in the ﬁeld, e.g., data gathering and coop-
erative learning. However, as with Case/Melved they do not
consider how context-speciﬁc information and services can
support the work.

The schoolBag is Uni-C’s proposal for an electronic school
bag.
It is a Web based service that provides each pupil
with space on a web server (webdisc) for the ﬁles he or she
wishes to save along with notes, links and addresses. While
the schoolBag is distributed because it is Web based, it is
not mobile unlike the eBag that allows the pupils to bring
their digital context with them as they move around on the
school or go on ﬁeld trips. Uni-C’s vision for an electronic
school bag does include aspects of mobility [21]; however, it
is largely based on providing every pupil with a notebook
computer that they can carry everywhere and access the
digital material. We support the idea of introducing more
mobile technologies in the learning setting, but we ﬁnd this
vision questionable because it still is so PC-centric that it
fails to even consider the range of mobile technologies that
are available, e.g., mobile phones that become increasingly
powerful and are already an integrated part of most pupils’
social lives.

An electronic schoolbag is also an important component in
building ad hoc classrooms in [9]. Their eSchoolbag consists
of a number of components, e.g., the electronic book, par-
ents’ contact book, pencil case and can be accessed through
a notebook computer or PDA. In their example, they present
a vision for school work where everything is done through
the PDA, from reading and doing exercise to communicating
with the pupil’s parents. While we support the idea of mak-
ing digital information accessible outside of the classroom
and on the move, we want to emphasise that supplying the
pupils and teachers with a range technologies to support
school work rather than replacing one technology for an-
other is a crucial point if we are to succeed in supporting
education and learning. Furthermore, we ﬁnd the assump-
tion that the eSchoolbag can and should be shared between
the pupil and his or her parents (parent check the e-contact
book on the PDA) to be a violation of the child’s privacy.

5. STATUS AND FUTURE WORK

An early prototype of the eBag application has been tested
at a local elementary school where two 7th grade classes
each used the eBag for project work for one week. Each
pupil was equipped with a mobile phone (Nokia 7650, 3650
or 6600) whose Bluetooth id worked as the unique identi-
ﬁer for their eBag. A SmartBoard and three PC’s in the
library were hooked up to BlipNode units, providing the
pupils with seamless access to their eBags. The small-scale
setup was chosen to provide proof of concept on both the
eBag and the technology we employed before implement-

ing it in a larger scale for a longer period of time. During
the test period, the pupils entered diﬀerent types of digi-
tal material (but primarily photos of themselves and their
family and friends) to their eBags. The average number of
items entered increased in week two as we initially experi-
enced some technical problems. Overall, the children found
the eBags engaging to work with despite the fact they were
hampered by a slow and at times non-existent internet con-
nection which rendered the eBags unusable.

We are currently in the process of re-designing the eBag,
particularly with respect to the user interface, information
structure and navigation. From our preliminary tests with
pupils from Vestergaardskolen, we see a need to provide the
pupils with the possibility to personalise their eBag beyond
changing name and picture, e.g., supporting the social struc-
tures by displaying their friend’s pictures and eBags, and
making it possible to showcase themselves to others through
a gallery and a blog-type message board. We are also de-
veloping the context dependencies with respect to groups
to include class/teacher- and class/school relations. Finally,
we are supporting a user-controlled awareness service on the
eBag that allows pupils to change their status from the mo-
bile phone.

In its ﬁrst implementation, the eBag is “tied” to a mobile
phone whose Bluetooth unit serves as a unique identiﬁer
for each pupil’s eBag. However, it can easily be associated
with other types of Bluetooth carriers (e.g., BlueTags) and
shaped like key-chains, buttons, toys, or whatever form is
most appropriate for the children in question. There are,
however, great advantages of using the mobile phone when
working with older children. First, most children in the 7th
to 10th grade already carry a mobile phone and are often
very attached to it to support their social networks. Second,
a variety of mobile phones oﬀer cameras, audio recorder and
video recorder functionality that provide valuable means of
capturing data, e.g., during project work.

6. CONCLUSION

This paper has described the eBag infrastructure, which is
a novel Web based infrastructure that supports collaborative
handling of digital resources in a school environment. The
goal of the eBag design is to support school kids in work-
ing in project oriented and nomadic learning, i.e., learning
where the kids may work in many diﬀerent places in and
outside the school buildings.

The key contributions of our work with the eBag infra-

structure are:

• A seamless login and logout mechanism based on Blue-
Tooth proximity sensors for accessing Web resources.
The login mechanism is based on the HyCon architec-
ture supporting a sensor layer.

• An exchange format for the eBag datamodel with an
XLink structure, integrating the eBag resources and
proﬁle information into a single composite, thus sup-
porting easy migration between platforms. This is an
example using XLink to implement classical hyperme-
dia composite structures.

• Support for adaptive behaviour by context dependent
views on the eBag structures, including an XLink based
format for expressing views, content and conditions.

This includes a proposal for handling context-interpretation
as an integral part of an XLink structure.

learning from experience, pages 49–70. Idea Group
Publishing, 2003.

The paper describes a case for the use of eBag in public
schools, and it discusses initial experiences from a ﬁeld test
with school kids. The eBag infrastructure and applications
are under ongoing development and a new long term ﬁeld
test is planned for March 2005.

7. ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

This work has been supported by Center for Interactive
Spaces, ISIS Katrinebjerg (Project #110). We are further-
more indebted to the pupils and teachers at Vesterg˚ardsskolen
in ˚Arhus for their valuable evaluation and design ideas for
the ﬁrst version of the eBag prototype.

8. REFERENCES
[1] G. Abowd. Classroom 2000: An experiment with the
instrumentation of a living educational environment.
IBM Systems Journal, Special issue on Pervasive
Computing, 38(4):508–530, October 1999.

[2] S. Adler, A. Berglund, J. Caruso, S. Deach,

T. Graham, P. Grosso, E. Gutentag, A. Milowski,
S. Parnell, J. Richman, and S. Zilles. Extensible
stylesheet language (XSL). W3c recommendation,
W3C, Oct. 2001. http://www.w3.org/TR/xsl/.

[3] J. Bardram. The trouble with login - user

authentication and medical cooperation. Manuscript
submitted for publication, 2004.

[4] J. E. Bardram, T. A. K. Kjær, and C. Nielsen.

Supporting local mobility in healthcare by application
roaming among heterogeneous device. In Proceedings
of the 5 th International Conference on Human
Computer Interaction with Mobile Devices and
Services. Springer Verlag, 2003.

[5] J. Barton and T. Kindberg. The cooltown user
experience. tech report: Hpl-2001-22. Technical
report, HP Labs., 2001.
http://www.hpl.hp.com/techreports/2001/HPL-2001-
22.html.

[6] V. Bellotti and S. Bly. Walking away from the desktop
computer: Distributed collaboration and mobility in a
product design team. In K. Ehrlich and C. Schmandt,
editors, Proceedings of ACM 1996 Conference on
Computer Supported Cooperative Work, pages
209–218. ACM, ACM Press, 1996.

[7] N. O. Bouvin, C. Brodersen, F. A. Hansen, O. Iversen,

and P. Nørregaard. Tools of contextualization:
Extending the class room to the ﬁeld. Submitted for
publication to the Personal and Ubiquitous
Computing Journal, 2004.

[8] N. O. Bouvin, B. G. Christensen, K. Grønbæk, and

F. A. Hansen. HyCon: A framework for context-aware
mobile hypermedia. The New Review of Hypermedia
and Multimedia, 9:59–88, 2003.

[9] C. Chang and J. Sheu. Design and implementation of

ad hoc classroom and eschoolbag systems for
ubiquitous learning. In Proceedings of IEEE
International Workshop on Wireless and Mobile
Technologies in Education, pages 8–14, 2002.

[10] V. Clulow and J. Brace-Govan. Web-based learning:

experience-based research. In Web-based education:

[11] S. DeRose, E. Maler, D. Orchard, and B. Traﬀord
(editors). XML Linking Language (XLink). W3C
Recommendation 27 June 2001, W3C, June 2001.
http://www.w3.org/TR/xlink/.

[12] A. K. Dey, D. Salber, and G. D. Abowd. A conceptual

framework and a toolkit for supporting the rapid
prototyping of context-aware applications.
Human-Computer Interaction (HCI) Journal,
16(2-4):97–166, 2001.

[13] A. M. Fountain, W. Hall, I. Heath, and H. C. Davis.

Microcosm: An open model for hypermedia with
dynamic linking.

[14] G. Gay, R. Reiger, and T. Bennington. Using mobile

computing to enhance ﬁeld study. In N. Miyake,
R. Hall, and T. Koschmann, editors, Carrying the
Conversation Forward. Mahwah, NJ: Erlbaum, 2002.
[15] K. Grønbæk and R. H. Trigg. Toward a Dexter based

model for open hypermedia: Unifying embedded
references and link objects. In Proceedings of the 7 th
ACM Hypertext Conference, pages 149–160, Bethesda,
MD, USA, Mar. 1996.

[16] S. Haderrouit. Implementing web-based learning in

higher education: An evolutionary software
engineering approach. In Lassner and McNaught [24],
pages 483–490.

[17] T. Hampel and R. Keil-Slawik. Steam - designing an

integrative infrastructure for web-based
computer-supported cooperative learning. In
Proceedings of the 10 th International World Wide
Web Conference, pages 76–85, Hong Kong, May 2001.
W3C.

[18] F. A. Hansen, N. O. Bouvin, B. G. Christensen,

K. Grønbæk, T. B. Pedersen, and J. Gagach.
Integrating the Web and the World: Contextual trails
on the move. In D. de Roure and H. Ashman, editors,
Proceedings of the 15 th ACM Hypertext Conference,
Santa Cruz, CA, USA, Aug. 2004. ACM Press.

[19] S. Harrison and P. Dourish. Replaceing space: the

roles of place and space in collaborative systems. In
Proceedings of the 1996 ACM Conference on
Computer Supported Cooperative Work, pages 67–76.
ACM Press, New York, NY, 1996.

[20] M. Heo. A learning and assessment tool for web-based

distributed education. In Proceeding of the 4 th
Conference on Information Technology Curriculum,
pages 151–154. ACM Press, 2003.

[21] P. Holmboe and P. K. Jessen. Skoleveje:

inspirationsmateriale til skolekom. uni-c teaching
material #37.134, 2003. http://3-
klasse.dk/sider uden menu/materialeliste.htm.

[22] O. S. Iversen and C. Nielsen. Using digital cultural
probes in design with children. Poster paper in the
Proceedings of the Interaction Design and Children
2003 Conference (IDC’03), 2003.

[23] H. Q. Jehøj, N. O. Bouvin, and K. Grønbæk.
AwareDAV: A Generic WebDAV Notiﬁcation
Framework. Submitted for publication, 2004.

[24] D. Lassner and C. McNaught, editors. Proceedings of

ED-MEDIA 2003, Honolulu, Hawaii, USA, 2003.
AACE.

[25] R. Magnussen and C. Jessen. Research report, ITMF

[29] D. Schneider and P. Synteta. Eva pm: Towards

497 projekt drabssag/melved. Technical report,
Learning Lab Denmark, 2004. (Danish only).
[26] K. Neville, F. Adam, and C. McCormack. A

web-based platform to mentor distance learners. In
Web-based education: learning from experience, pages
189–202. Idea Group Publishing, 2003.

[27] P. Nørregaard, J. Andersen, C. Dindler, J. Frich, O. S.

Iversen, and C. Nielsen. Networking news—a method
for engaging children actively in design. In Proceedings
of the 26 th Information Systems Research Seminar in
Scandinavia, 2003.

[28] N. Scheele, C. Seitz, W. Eﬀelsberg, and A. Wessels.

Mobile devices in interactive lectures. In Lassner and
McNaught [24], pages 154–161.

project-based e-learning. In World Conference on
E-Learning in Corporate, Government, Healthcare,
and Higher Education., volume 1, pages 2755–2756,
Phoenix, Arizona, USA, 2002. AACE.

[30] R. Want, A. Hopper, V. Falcao, and J. Gibbons. The
active badge location system. ACM Transactions on
Information Systems, 10(1):91–102, 1992.

[31] M. J. Weal, D. T. Michaelides, M. K. Thompson, and
D. C. DeRoure. The ambient wood journals: replaying
the experience. In L. Carr and L. Hardman, editors,
Proceedings of the 14 th ACM Hypertext Conference,
pages 20–27, Nottingham, UK, Aug. 2003. ACM Press.

[32] M. Weiser. The computer for the 21st century.
Scientiﬁc American, 265(3):66–75, Feb. 1991.

