Social and Semantics Analysis Via Non-negative Matrix

Factorization  *

Zhi-li Wu

Computer Science

Department

Chi-wa  Cheng
Computer Science

Depar tment

Chun-hung Li
Computer Science

Department

Hong Kong Baptist University

Hong Kong Baptist University

Hong Kong Baptist University

{v inc ent , v ic t or, c hli}@c omp. hk bu. edu. hk

ABSTRACT
Social media such as Web forum often have dense interac-
tions between user and content where network models are
often appropriate for analysis. Joint non-negative matrix
factorization model of participation and content data can
be viewed as a bipartite graph model between users and
media and is proposed for analysis social media. The fac-
torizations allow simultaneous automatic discovery of lead-
ers and sub-communities in the Web forum as well as the
core latent topics in the forum. Results on topic detection
of Web forums and cluster analysis show that social features
are highly eﬀective for forum analysis.

Categories and Subject Descriptors
I.2.6 [Computing Methodologies]: Artiﬁcial Intelligence—
Learning; H.3.1 [Information System]: Content Analysis
and Indexing; H.5.4 [Information System]: Information
interfaces and presentation—hypertext/hypermedia

General Terms
Theory, Algorithms

Keywords
Social Network Analysis, latent topic detection, latent inter-
est detection

1. SOCIAL INTERACTION MODEL

1.1 Latent Topic Detection via Factorization

of User Interaction Matrix

In the study of social media involving dense interactions
between users, relationships between the media and the in-
dividuals are often essential to the understanding of both
the topics of discussion and the interest of users. Figure 1
shows the relationship between web media and individuals
using the web site. In the case of Web forum, online discus-
sion is the media where individuals participate according to
their interest. By measuring the participation frequencies of
each user in each discussion, and denoting it as matrix X of
size n× m, where n discussions are participated by m users.
∗

This work is partially supported by FRG of HKBU

Copyright is held by the author/owner(s).
WWW 2008, April 21–25, 2008, Beijing, China.
ACM 978-1-60558-085-2/08/04.

This matrix can also be viewed as a bipartite graph where
one set of nodes corresponds to the discussions and one set
of nodes to the users.

Individual
Media

Figure 1: Social Interaction of Individual and Web
Media

To detect the k groups of latent topics in discussions, the
weighted discussion-participation matrix X can be factor-
ized via non-negative matrix factorization (NMF) into a ma-
trix W of n×k and a matrix H of k×m. NNF has found lots
of applications in text mining [3],[4]. The two matrices after
factorization have the eﬀect of indicating the cluster mem-
bership. The cluster membership ci of the i−th discussion
is simply given by

ci = arg max

j

Wij ,

where j is the label of the latent topic of the discussions.
Usually the number of latent topics are a much smaller num-
ber than the total number of discussions.
1.2 Joint Factorization of Social and Semantic

Attributes

For a set of n discussions where m words appear alto-
gether, we can represent the discussions-words into a matrix
F of n × q. To factorize both matrices,
X = W H, F = W G,

where X and F are factorized to the same matrix W , to-
gether with H and G, respectively. And the objective func-
tion is

1245WWW 2008 / Poster PaperApril 21-25, 2008 · Beijing, China(||X − W H||2

+ λ||F − W G||2

),

(1)

min

W,H,G≥0,

where λ is a user-speciﬁed constant. This leads to the fol-
lowing updating rules,

H = H. ∗ (W T X)./(W T W H),
G = G. ∗ (W T F )./(W T W G),
)./(W (HH T

+ λF GT

W = W. ∗ (XH T

+ λGGT

)),

which can guarantee to keep the objective value non-increasing
through the proof of trace operation and Lagrange trans-
form. In addition to the updating rules, the following two
separate updating rules are adopted as initialization steps,

W = W. ∗ (XH T
W = λW. ∗ (F GT

)./(W (HH T

)),

)./(W (GGT

)).

2. EXPERIMENT
2.1 Data Extraction

A popular web forum in high ﬁdelity Audio-visual equip-
In this forum, three distinct discussion

ments is studied.
boards are available to public users with assigned alias AvBoard,
ChatBoard, and 2ndHandBoard. In the ﬁrst of the experi-
ment, we conduct topic detection in AvBoard using discus-
sion participation data only.
2.2 Topic Detection in Web Forum

The results of topic detection using user participation only
in the AvBoard is shown here. The pﬁdf-weighted user par-
ticipation frequency matrix is decomposed using NMF into
ten groups. The ten groups are evaluated by human expert
as well as cluster entropy. Human expert evaluations of the
latent topic nature of the clusters are shown in Table 1.
Clusters that do not have coherent topics in the discussions
are labeled as miscellaneous. The latent topics discovered

Table 1: Latent Topics discovered in the AvBoard

C1
C2
C3
C4
C5
C6
C7
C8
C9
C10

Exhibitions, shows

Tube/DIY
DAC DIY

Compact disc

Turntable, Vinyl discs

Vintage Equipment

Miscellaneous

Japanese product

CD players

Miscellaneous

match well to the posting characteristics. New latent topic,
e.g. C1 of the Exhibition and shows about AV equipment
that does not exist in the forum. The same is also true
for C2 and C3 which is related to do-it-yourself (DIY) in
audio hobby. As DIY discussions on audio equipment is a
hobby where much support and discussions are generated,
the existence of sub-community based on it is quite evident.
Furthermore, vintage equipment also found itself in a spe-
cial sub-community. The entropy measures of the identiﬁed
cluster agrees very well with human evaluations where mis-
cellaneous clusters have higher entropies.

2.3 Clustering

For the clustering of the three boards of discussions, the
data set contains 1003 discussions from ChatBoard, 1069
from 2ndHandBoard, and 1040 from AvBoard. There are
7728 participators and 24791 words in total.

The clustering performance is measured by weighted pu-
rity. For a p-cluster task, if the factorization matrix W is
m × k and hereby divides the dataset into k groups, the pu-
rity is calculated by ﬁrst counting for each of the k groups
the number of points with their true clustering label dom-
inant in this group, and then divided by the total number
of data point in the dataset. When p = k, this measure is
equivalent to the typical clustering accuracy measure.

Table 2: Purity Measure of AV Web Forum Clus-
tering

k DPDW DP
3
6
9
12
15

0.7382
0.8661
0.8746
0.8878
0.8668

0.5480
0.5646
0.5883
0.6071
0.6199

DW
0.4968
0.6786
0.6735
0.6702
0.6591

Table 2 shows the clustering purity on diﬀerent k, while
DPDW refers to the NMF utilizing both the discussion-
participator and discussion-word matrices, and DP and DW
refers to the NMF utilizing the discussion-participation and
discussion-word matrix respectively. It can be noticed from
the result that the clustering results can be signiﬁcantly in-
creased with the joint factorization approach.

3. CONCLUSION

User participation in Web forum is essential to the analy-
sis of Web discussions. We presented methods for detect-
ing topics based on discussion-participation, and also on
both discussion-participation and discussion-word. Results
of topic detection in Web forum shows that the approach is
feasible and latent topics previously unknown to the forum
can be discovered.
It should also be noted the degree of
eﬀectiveness could be dependent on the nature of the Web
forum. Furthermore, we also present results on integrating
the use of document corpus with user participation to cluster
discussions from several diﬀerent discussion boards.

4. REFERENCES
[1] P. J. Carrington, J. Scott, and S. Wasserman, editors.

Models and Methods in Social Network Analysis.
Cambridge University Press, 2005.

[2] P. Kollock. The economies of online cooperation: Gifts

and public goods in cyberspace. In M. Smith and
P. Kollock, editors, Communities in Cyberspace.
Routledge, London, 1999.

[3] D. D. Lee and H. S. Seung. Algorithms for non-negative

matrix factorization. In NIPS, pages 556–562, 2000.
[4] W. Xu, X. Liu, and Y. Gong. Document clustering

based on non-negative matrix factorization. In SIGIR,
pages 267–273, 2003.

1246WWW 2008 / Poster PaperApril 21-25, 2008 · Beijing, China