Semantic Web Applications to E-Science in silico

Experiments

Jun Zhao

University of Manchester

Kilburn Building, Oxford Road
Manchester, United Kingdom

zhaoj@cs.man.ac.uk

Carole Goble

University of Manchester

Kilburn Building, Oxford Road
Manchester, United Kingdom
carole@cs.man.ac.uk

Robert Stevens

University of Manchester

Kilburn Building, Oxford Road
Manchester, United Kingdom
robert.stevens@cs.man.ac.uk

ABSTRACT
This paper explains our research and implementations of manual,
automatic and deep annotations of provenance logs for e-Science
in silico experiments. Compared to annotating general Web doc-
uments, annotations for scientiﬁc data require more sophisticated
professional knowledge to recognize concepts from documents, and
more complex text extraction and mapping mechanisms. A simple
automatic annotation approach based on “lexicons” and a deep an-
notation implemented by semantically populating, translating and
annotating provenance logs are introduced in this paper. We used
COHSE (Conceptual Open Hypermedia Services Environment) to
annotate and browse provenance logs from myGrid 1 project, which
are conceptually linked together as a hypertext Web of provenance
logs and experiment resources, based on the associated conceptual
metadata and reasoning over these metadata.

Categories and Subject Descriptors
E.5 [Data]: Files; H.2.8 [Information Systems]: Database Man-
agement—Database Applications; H.5.4 [Information Systems]:
Hypertext/Hypermedia

General Terms
Experimentation, Human Factors

Keywords
provenance, integration, annotation, ontology, Semantic Web, e-
Science

1.

INTRODUCTION

e-Science in silico experiments complement traditional lab work
by using computer-based information repositories and computa-
tional analysis to test a hypothesis, search for patterns, or demon-
strate a known fact. myGrid, as a pilot e-Science research project
in the U.K., intends to build a personalized workbench for biol-
ogists and bioinformaticians to enact in silico experiments, and to
organize variety of experiment resources (like data, services, exper-
iment designs, conclusions, etc). Data results from in silico experi-
ments are of reduced value without provenance, which records the

1http://www.mygrid.org.uk

Copyright is held by the author/owner(s).
WWW2004, May 17–22, 2004, New York, New York, USA.
ACM 1-58113-912-8/04/0005.

lineage of data, experiments, and the context information of exper-
iments. Provenance is helpful to evaluate a scientiﬁc hypothesis, to
share results and avoid duplication of work, to verify the credit and
accountability of scientiﬁc discoveries and to trace the ownership
and version of data.

Complex interlinking information reside in collections of prove-
nance logs. In practice, users expect higher level linkings between
provenance logs to support drawing experiment conclusions. The
Semantic Web, as an extension to the current Web, greatly succeeds
in deﬁning and linking documents or resources based on the asso-
ciated conceptual metadata for more effective knowledge discov-
ery, integration and cooperation across computers and people. By
annotating provenance logs with a suite of commonly shared bioin-
formatics and other generic ontologies [2], we aim to conceptually
link provenance logs and other experiment resources together, to
give a higher level of view over these documents; and provide a
friendly interface for querying by navigation through these docu-
ments, supported by COHSE [1].

2. COHSE

COHSE integrates three technologies: an Ontology Service,
which uses rich knowledge representation techniques and reason-
ing abilities to produce a machine processable semantics to the con-
ceptual metadata associated with documents, and the relationships
between these concepts; an Annotation Service, which annotates
documents or sections of documents with concepts from the on-
tology and maintaining the mappings from concepts to documents;
and a Link Service, which generates target links for the concepts
associated with Web documents and displays links in a hierarchy
supported by the reasoning of the Ontology Service. COHSE sup-
ports both proxy-based and browser-based annotation approaches.
In this project, we adopted the browser-based approach for annota-
tion and conceptual linking.

Annotations are stored and managed as independent objects in
COHSE. A central link-base, implemented in a mySQL database,
holds all the annotations and provides an HTTP/CGI interface for
inserting and querying the annotations. When COHSE loads a new
Web page, the Link Service retrieves all the words that appear in the
page. By identifying all the concepts in the page through the lexi-
con and the Annotation Service, the Link Service in COHSE con-
tacts the Annotation Service to identify target links to other URLs
with corresponding concepts as inferred by the Ontology Service.
Consequently, we are able to link Web pages together based on the
concepts associated with their contents. By changing the ontology,
we can get different link “views” over those resources.

Figure 1: Linked Logs through Semantic Annotations.

3. ANNOTATING PROVENANCE LOGS

When a biologist, whose research interest is human genetics,
plans to run experiments in the myGrid workbench, in order to ﬁnd
new genes in the critical region that leads to a DiseaseX, he wants
to navigate linked provenance logs from repeated experiment runs
in order to compare and verify the results, and test his hypothe-
sis. Also he hopes to discover supporting materials, like research
literature, experience materials from his colleagues, etc.

By a manual process annotation authors can recognize concepts
for scientiﬁc data and services from documents and manually an-
notate the corresponding concepts with these objects. Thus prove-
nance logs are conceptually linked together based on the associated
semantic metadata. But the process of manual annotation is time-
consuming and error-prone, which motives our research in auto-
matic and deep annotation.

In the process of automatic annotations, language terms are rec-
ognized by the control of DOM (Document Object Model) objects
in documents and unsupervisedly mapped to lexicons in an ontol-
ogy. So the home page of the biologist’s colleague (a human ge-
neticist) can be linked to the provenance log run by him, based
on the underlying semantic concepts in respective document and
their relationships that “Human Geneticist” is somebody who stud-
ies “Human Genetics”. But this automatic annotation currently is
not intelligent enough for complex term mappings and can easily
result in redundant linkings between documents.

In myGrid project, for each experiment run, there is a correspond-
ing ﬁle which provides semantic information about the data and
services invoked in the experiment. “Deep annotation” is a pro-
cess exploiting the semantic information from these ﬁles, for each
data and service object in the experiments, based on the unique
identiﬁers of these objects which are applied in both information
resources. Thus deep annotation saves users from recognizing and
annotating documents by hand, and applies more professional con-
cepts, like bioinformatics terms, to complex scientiﬁc data. As
shown in Figure 1, provenance log of an experiment run by the bi-

ologist which uses a Affymetrix probe set id (a semantic concept)
as input is semantically linked with other provenance logs which
use Affymetrix probe set id as either input, output or parameter for
services invoked in an experiment. Links to these logs are provided
to the biologist in the pop-up window (Figure 1) nearby the anno-
tated concept in the log. So the user can browse these conceptually
linked logs by just pointing and clicking.

Our semantically linked provenance logs successfully provide
a higher level view between these logs and experiment resources.
Currently, this deep annotation design is based on a single bioin-
formatics ontology. myGrid is working on building an annotation
template which supports annotating with multiple ontologies and
expects to improve the provenance model with richer semantic abil-
ity.

4. ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

myGrid project, grant number GR/R67743, is funded under the
UK e-Science programme by the EPSRC. The authors would like
to acknowledge the other members of the myGrid team for their
contributions; Sean Bechhofer who developed the COHSE system;
Yeliz Yeslida for her help in getting COHSE up and running. We
also thank Mark Greenwood and Chris Wroe for their help during
our annotation implemetation process.

5. REFERENCES
[1] S. Bechhofer, L. Carr, C. Goble, and W. Hall. Conceptual
Open Hypermedia = The Semantic Web? In SemWeb2001,
The Second International Workshop on the Semantic Web,
Hong Kong, May 2001.

[2] C. Wroe, R. Stevens, C. Goble, and M. Greenwood. A suite of

DAML+OIL Ontologies to Describe Bioinformatics Web
Services and Data. International Journal of Cooperative
Information Systems, 12(2):197–224, 2003.

 