WWW 2008 Workshop: NLPIX2008 Summary 

Hiroshi Nakagawa 

Information Technology Center 

The University of Tokyo 
7-3-1 Hongou Bunkyo-ku, 
Tokyo 113-0033, JAPAN 

nakagawa@dl.itc.u-tokyo.ac.jp

Kentaro Torisawa 

Japan Advanced Institute of  
Science and Technology  

1-1 Asahidai, Nomi, 

Ishikawa 923-1292, JAPAN 
torisawa@jaist.ac.jp

Masaru Kitsuregawa 

Institute of Industrial Science 

The University of Tokyo 
4-6-1 Komaba Meguro-ku, 
Tokyo 153-8505, JAPAN  

kitsure@tkl.iis.u-tokyo.ac.jp 

 

ABSTRACT 
The  amount  of  information  available  on  the  Web  has  increased 
rapidly,  reaching  levels  that  few  would  ever  have  imagined 
possible.  We  live  in  what  could  be  called  the  "information-
explosion  era,"  and  this  situation  poses  new  problems  for 
computer scientists. Users demand useful and reliable information 
from the Web in  the  shortest  time  possible,  but  the  obstacles  to 
fulfilling  this  demand  are  many  including  language  barriers  and 
the  so-called  "long  tail."  Even  worse,  users  may  provide  only 
vague specifications of the information that they actually want, so 
that a more concrete specification must somehow be inferred by 
Web  access  tools.  Natural  language  processing  (NLP)  is  one  of 
the  key  technologies  for  solving  the  above  Web  usability 
problems.  Almost  all  the  Web  page  provide  with  the  essential 
information in the form of natural language texts, and the amount 
of  these  text  information  is  huge.  In  order  to  offer  solutions  to 
these  problems  we  must  perform  searching  and  extracting 
information from the Web texts using NLP technologies. The aim 
of  this  workshop:  NLP  Challenges  in  the  Information 
Explosion  Era  (NLPIX  2008)  is  to  bring  researchers  and 
practitioners together in order to discuss our most pressing needs 
with respect to accessing information on the Web, and to discuss 
new ideas in NLP technologies that might offer viable solutions 
for those issues. 

Categories and Subject Descriptors 
I.I.7 [DOCUMENT AND TEXT PROCESSING ] : Miscellaneous 
General Terms:  Algorithms, Experimentation, Languages, 
Performance, Theory. 
Keywords: Web, Natural Language Processing 

1.  THEME AND TOPICS 
As users’ demands for the Web diversify, it is often the case that 
existing  commercial  search  engines  cannot  provide  useful 
information.  This  workshop  focuses  on  diversified  users’  needs 
that  have  not  been  sufficiently  satisfied  by  the  existing  search 
engines and other technologies, and discusses new ideas in NLP 
techniques that might offer viable solutions. Therefore, we invited 
submissions  of  original  papers  describing  a  wide  range  of 
applications  of  the  NLP  technologies  to  Web  access.  Possible 
topics are:  
1)  Cross-lingual  and  cross-cultural  Web  access  using  machine 
 
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s). 
WWW 2008,  April 21–25, 2008, Beijing, China. 
ACM 978-1-60558-085-2/08/04. 

entities/facts  on 

translation, 2) Information extraction/fact retrieval from the Web, 
3)  Disambiguation  of 
the  Web,  4) 
Dialogue/Interactive/Exploratory  systems  for  Web  access  using 
natural 
languages,  5)  Automatic  summarization  of  Web 
documents, 6) Combination/Discrimination of multiple document 
resources  on  the  Web,  7)  Trust/Credibility  evaluation  of  Web 
documents  using  NLP,  8)  Opinion  extraction/Sentiment  analysis 
on the Web, 9) Long tail/Minority/Serendipity search using NLP, 
10) Entity identification on the Web e.g. people name search, 11) 
Knowledge Acquisition from the Web documents/query logs for 
effective  Web  access,  12)  Effective  search  methods  for  mobile 
devices using NLP, 13) NLP-based  blog  analysis  and  14)  Other 
topics related to NLP and Web.  
In particular, we solicited the papers that aim at fulfilling a novel 
type of needs in Web access and that can provide a new insight 
into future directions of Web access research. 
2.  ACCEPTED PAPERS 
We received 15 submissions in total. They describe the original  
theories,  methods,  systems  and  applications.  Since  this  is  a  half 
day workshop, we had to select six papers. The selected  papers’ 
title and authors are: 
1.  Refined  and  Incremental  Centroid-based  approach  for 

Genre Categorization of Web pages. Chaker Jebari 

2.  Personal Name Resolution of Web People Search. Krisztian 

Balog, Leif Azopardi, Maarten De Rijke 

3.  Discriminative Dialog Analysis Using a Massive Collection 
of BBS comments. Eiji Aramaki, Takeshi Abekawa, Yohei 
Murakami, Akiyo Nadamoto 

4.  Building  a  Sentiment  Summarizer  for  Local  Service 
Reviews.  Sasha  Blair-Goldensohn,  Ryan  McDonald, 
George Reis, Tyler Neylon, Kerry Hannan, Jeff Reynar 
Incorporate the Syntactic Knowledge in Opinion Mining in 
User-generated Content. Qiu, Guang 

6.  Towards  Person  Name  Matching.  Jakub  Piskorski, Karol 

5. 

Wieloch 

3.  ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 
We appreciate the following reviewers who did good job within 
very short reviewing time: 
Andrew  Borthwick,  Julio  Conzalo,  Lee-Feng  Chien,  Atsushi 
Fujii, Kentaro Inui, Noriko Kando, Jussi Karlgren, Gary Geunbae 
Lee, Hang Li, Mun-Kew Leong, Reiner Kraft, Sadao Kurohashi, 
Tatsunori  Mori,  Massimo  Poesio,  Satoshi  Sekine,  Ralf 
Steinberger,  Le  Sun,  Jun-ichi  Tatemura,  Takehito  Utsuro  and 
Kam-Fai Wong.  
Finally our thanks to Atsushi Fujii who did the publicity task of 
this workshop. 

1277WWW 2008 / Workshop Summary April 21-25, 2008 · Beijing, China