Grafﬁti: Node Labeling in Heterogeneous Networks

Ralitsa Angelova

Gjergji Kasneci

Max-Planck Institute for Informatics, Saarbruecken, Germany

angelova, kasneci, suchanek, weikum@mpi-inf.mpg.de

Fabian M. Suchanek

Gerhard Weikum

Abstract
We introduce a multi-label classiﬁcation model and algo-
rithm for labeling heterogeneous networks, where nodes be-
long to diﬀerent types and diﬀerent types have diﬀerent sets
of classiﬁcation labels. We present a graph-based approach
which models the mutual inﬂuence between nodes in the
network as a random walk. When viewing class labels as
“colors”, the random surfer is “spraying” diﬀerent node types
with diﬀerent color palettes; hence the name Graﬃti. We
demonstrate the performance gains of our method by com-
paring it to three state-of-the-art techniques for graph-based
classiﬁcation.

Categories and Subject Descriptors
I.5.2 [Pattern Recognition]: Classiﬁer design and evalua-
tion; G.3 [Probability and statistics]: Markov processes
General Terms
Graph Classiﬁcation, Link Analysis
1.

INTRODUCTION

Heterogeneous graphs are developing faster than ever. In
the context of the rapidly growing social networks ( e.g.
Flickr, Deli.cio.us, LibraryThing, LinkedIn), heterogeneous
graphs are formed by encoding users, their postings like pho-
tos, bookmarks, book descriptions, ratings, etc., and other
contextual information as graph nodes, belonging to dif-
ferent node types but co-existing and mutually inﬂuencing
each other in the graph [3, 4, 5, 7, 11, 12]. Heterogeneous
graphs are formed in many other areas like medical do-
mains (containing information about patients, treatments,
diseases, contacts) or e-commerce platforms (representing
the complex interactions between diﬀerent types of nodes
like users, products, customers, rating, reviews, etc.).

In this paper we present a novel graph-based algorithm
that aims at classifying each node as belonging to one or
more labels from a ﬁnite set of type-speciﬁc labels. Let us
use a toy example to illustrate the goal of the algorithm. If
you consider the social network ﬂickr, a user is more likely to
belong to the class Outdoor activity fans if she has frequently
used tags belonging to the class Mountain and/or she has
viewed, commented and posted photos classiﬁed as Nature
Photography. In this example, the graph G = (V, E) con-
tains nodes from set V = {V1 ∪ Vk . . . ∪ Vt} that belong to

Copyright is held by the author/owner(s).
WWW 2009, April 20–24, 2009, Madrid, Spain.
ACM 978-1-60558-487-4/09/04.

one of three types Vk (here t = 3): user, photo or tag. The
relations between them are represented as edges E which
either connect two nodes of the same type or connect two
nodes belonging to diﬀerent types. To ease referring to the
edges, we will use the abbreviation S-edges for the same-type
edges and X-edges for the cross-type edges. An example of
an S-link formation would be a friendship connection be-
tween two users. Note that heterogeneous graphs contain
an overwhelming number of X-links and few S-links. There-
fore, graph-based classiﬁcation methods, designed to derive
class labels based on direct links between the graph nodes
will degrade in their performance, because most direct links
connect diﬀerent types of nodes with type-speciﬁc classes.
The model we propose is able to leverage the prominent
inﬂuence of X-links, as a powerful tool to facilitate class in-
ference across diﬀerent type nodes.

Let us think of class labels as colors. We model the mu-
tual inﬂuence of nodes as a random walk, in which an in-
telligent surfer carries diﬀerent color spray cans, and while
walking in the graph is coloring all its nodes by spraying
diﬀerent node types with diﬀerent color palettes. The color
she would choose and the types of links she would follow to
reach other nodes is described in a mathematically sound
framework outlined below.

2. FRAMEWORK AND ALGORITHM

Graﬃti models the inﬂuence among nodes of the same
type by looking at their common neighbors, which typically
belong to other types. We base the strength of the mutual
inﬂuence between nodes v, v(cid:48) ∈ Vk on two criteria:

• The bigger the overlap of shared neighbors, the higher

the inﬂuence of v and v(cid:48) on each other.

• The bigger the mutual inﬂuence among shared neigh-
bors, the higher the inﬂuence of v and v(cid:48) on each other.
These criteria are incorporated in the random walk the
Graﬃti surfer takes by giving him the possibility at each
node to either perform a two-hop walk, spreading colors
to same-type nodes via heterogeneous common neighbors
(thus following two X-edges), perform a one-hop walk to
any node of v’s heterogeneous neighborhood (following a X-
or S- edge), or choose at random any node from G (perform
a random jump).

The model associates each node with two vectors: a prior
class-label probability distribution of v, denoted by λ(v) =
(λ1(v), . . . , λn(v))T , smoothed over the domain of all pos-
sible classes C; and a vector µ(v) that captures the class-
speciﬁc (graph-topological) importance of a node. The latter

WWW 2009 MADRID!Poster Sessions: Wednesday, April 22, 20091087measure represents a topic-biased authority, where µi(v) de-
scribes the importance of v for class ci.
When performing a two-hop step from v to a node v(cid:48) ∈
type Vk, the surfer reaches into her pocket and decides to
use the same color ci she used at v, in order to paint v(cid:48),
with a probability that is proportional to the authority of
µi(v). When the surfer decides to use another color cj for
v(cid:48), she chooses that color with probability proportional to
µi(v), dampened by λj(v) (thus changing the color from ci
to cj). That is, the prior for color cj of node v has a certain
stickiness. The random surfer spreads equal portions of the
selected color on all nodes of Vk that share Vl neighbors with
v.
Similarly, when the surfer decides to perform a one-hop
walk from v to a neighboring node v(cid:48) ∈ Vk ∪ Vl, she can
use any color cj with a probability proportional to µ(v),
dampened by λj(v).

Finally, when the surfer decides to randomly jump to any
node u in the graph, she chooses a color ci to paint u with
probability proportional to λi(u)/|V |.

This random walk model includes the following compo-

nents:

• the probability that the random surfer performs a ran-

dom jump J,

• the probability that she follows an X-link path from
node v to a node v(cid:48) of the same type, spraying the
same color as in the starting node v - F 2

same color,

• the probability that she follows an X-link path from
node v to a node v(cid:48) of the same type, spraying another
color F 2

change color,

• and the probability of following a link to any node of

the heterogeneous neighborhood F 1.

class ci is given by

Finally, the importance of a node v ∈ Vk with respect to
µi(v) = P [v, ci, J] +(cid:80)
(cid:88)

P [v(cid:48), v, ci, ci, F 2

v(cid:48)∈Vk
P [v(cid:48), v, cj , ci, F 2

same color]

change color] +

P [u, v, cj , ci, F 1].

(cid:88)

+

v(cid:48)∈Vk

j

(cid:88)

j

We prove that Graﬃti’s random walk corresponds to a
stochastic process and has desired properties like conver-
gence and a unique solution. Details are omitted due to
shortage of space. We implemented and tested the frame-
work using real-world data from the social network ﬂickr.

3. EXPERIMENTAL VALIDATION

We crawled a subgraph from the ﬂickr network where peo-
ple share personal photos and attach tags to photos. Our
crawl contains approximately 231,000 nodes, roughly 4,000
users, 123,000 photos and 104,000 tags. There are close
to 3,000,000 links, out of which only 23,000 are same-type
edges. We use the same set of class labels for all three node
types. Note that even if two nodes from diﬀerent types have
the same label, they are conceptually diﬀerent, since the la-
bels are type-speciﬁc (i.e. User.ci is diﬀerent from Photo.ci).
We use the following labels: 1) Animals, 2) Birds, 3) Ar-
chitecture, 4) Portrait, and 5) Nature. These are explicit
category names in ﬂickr itself.

We compare the performance of diﬀerent classiﬁers based
on the precision/recall break-even point (hence, also

equal to the micro-averaged F 1 measure) [10] , which is a
typical measure for the eﬀectiveness of a multi-label classi-
ﬁer. As we produce a vector of predictions, we would also
like to test to what extent the order of class probabilities in
the ground truth is reﬂected in the prediction vector. There-
fore, we compared the rankings provided by the ground truth
vector and the prediction vector by using the normalized
discounted cumulative gain (NDCG).We also compared
both vectors in terms of ranking the class probabilities using
the well-known Kendall’s tau measure.

We compare the performance of ﬁve classiﬁers: a text only
classiﬁer, in our case a Naive Bayesian (NB) classiﬁer, which
serves as initializer of the topical distribution per node in
the graph; a hybrid classiﬁer (HC), that uses the links in
a node’s neighborhood to enhance its node representation
and later on applies a weighted voting scheme to decide on
the most probable class of a node [9]; the proposed method
Graﬃti that takes as initial class distribution the predictions
returned by the NB text only classiﬁer (the baseline); a top-
ical PageRank approach [8] (TPR); and an iterative Relax-
ation Labeling (RL) approach from the family of graphical
models, that builds on, but extends and generalizes earlier
work [1, 2].

Table 1 shows results for an experiment with a training
set of 1,000 labeled nodes and a test set of 230,000 unlabeled
nodes. Methods requiring initialization use the same base-
line. All gains in Table 1 are statistically signiﬁcant with a
t-test level of 0.05.

System microF1 NDCG K.Tau
0.3060
NB
Graﬃti
0.3278
0.3160
TPR
0.2051
RL
HC
0.2685
Table 1: Performance comparison

0.7797
0.7930
0.7863
0.6767
0.7579

0.5195
0.5407
0.5293
0.2830
0.4781

Overall, these and other experiments (omitted here for
space restrictions) provide clear evidence for the superiority
of the proposed method Graﬃti.
4. REFERENCES
[1] Angelova,R., Weikum,G. Graph-based Text Classiﬁcation:

Learn from Your Neighbors. SIGIR, 2006.

[2] Chakrabarti,S., Dom,B.E., Indyk,P. Enhanced hypertext

categorization using hyperlinks. SIGMOD, 1998.

[3] Getoor, L. Link mining: a new data mining challenge. ACM

SIGKDD, 2003

[4] Getoor,L. and Taskar, B. Introduction to Statistical

Relational Learning (Adaptive Computation and Machine
Learning). The MIT Press, 2007.

[5] Getoor,L., Diehl,C.P. Link mining: a survey. KDD, 2005.
[6] Jarvelin, K., Kekalainen, J. IR evaluation methods for

retrieving highly relevant documents. ACM SIGIR, 2000.
[7] Macskassy, S. A., Provost, F. Classiﬁcation in Networked

Data: A toolkit and a univariate case study. Journal of
Machine Learning, 8(May):935-983, 2007.

[8] Nie,L., Davison,B.D., Qi,X. Topical link analysis for web

search. SIGIR, 2006.

[9] Oh,H.-J., Myaeng,S.H., Lee,M. A practical hypertext
catergorization method using links and incrementally
available class information. SIGIR, 2000.

[10] Thorsten, Joachims. Transductive Inference for Text

Classiﬁcation using Support Vector Machines. ICML, 1999.

[11] Wang,F., Zhang,C. Label Propagation Through Linear

Neighborhoods. ICML’06.

[12] Wu T.-F., Lin, C.-J., Weng,R.C. Probability Estimates for
Multi-class Classiﬁcation by Pairwise Coupling. Journal of
Machine Learning Research, 2004.

WWW 2009 MADRID!Poster Sessions: Wednesday, April 22, 20091088