Learning Ontologies to Improve the Quality of Automatic

Web Service Matching

Department of Computer

IBM TJ Watson Research

Hui Guo

Science

Stony Brook University
Stony Brook, NY 10532

Anca Ivan

Center

19 Skyline Drive

Hawthorne, NY 10532

Rama Akkiraju

IBM TJ Watson Research

Center

19 Skyline Drive

Hawthorne, NY 10532

huguo@cs.sunysb.edu

ancaivan@us.ibm.com

akkiraju@us.ibm.com

ABSTRACT
This paper presents a novel technique that signiﬁcantly im-
proves the quality of semantic Web service matching by (1)
automatically generating ontologies based on Web service
descriptions and (2) using these ontologies to guide the map-
ping between Web services. The experimental results indi-
cate that with our unsupervised approach we can eliminate
up to 70% of incorrect matches that are made by dictionary-
based approaches.

Categories and Subject Descriptors
C.2.0 [Computer Systems Organization]: COMPUTER-
COMMUNICATION NETWORKS—Data communications

General Terms
Algorithms, Standardization

Keywords
Semantics, Web services

1.

INTRODUCTION

(clientName splits into client and Name), expanded from
abbreviations into full words (ClientInfo is expanded to Cli-
entInformation), and associated with a list of its synonyms,
which is built using a domain-independent dictionary (e.g.,
WordNet).

2. Finding Matches. The ”best” matches for a given
word are given by a ”similarity score”: Score(A, B) = syn-
Num / max(len(A), len(B)) where synN um is the number
of matching words (i.e., the tokens that are synonyms), and
len(X) is the number of tokens in the tag X. For example,
the similarity score between CustomerCare and ClientSearch
is 0.5, because Customer and Client are synonyms, but Care
and Search are not.

3. Filtering The ﬁltering step reduces the set of all pos-
sible matches to a smaller set, based on their signiﬁcance.
However, many of the ﬁnal matches are incorrect: The tags
CompanyID and CountryID should not be matched since
CompanyID is about a company, while CountryID is about
a country. The tag LegalContractID should be matched to
Contract instead of LegalAccountID. The reason for the false
positives is that dictionary-based approach treats each tag
as a bag of words and ignores the relationships between the
words in a tag.

Semantic Web services represent the next generation of

Web services, designed to support automatic discovery, match-
ing and composition of Web services. This paper describes a
novel ontology-learning approach that matches a source and
a target set of Web services by reﬁning the classic dictionary-
based approach by capturing the relationships between to-
kens inside service tags. The idea is to disambiguate such
tag matches by capturing the word relationships in an on-
tology, and use the ontology to guide the matching process.

2. DICTIONARY-BASED APPROACH

The idea of the dictionary-based approach is to decide
whether two web services match by extracting all words from
the service descriptions and computing the best matches
based on dictionaries. For example, the tags customerName
and clientId might match because customer is a synonym
for client, and name is a synonym for ID. In general, the
dictionary-based approach contains three stages.

1. Tag Processing. After parsing the Web services and
extracting all tags, each tag is divided into multiple tokens
Copyright  is  held  by  the  author/owner(s ).
WWW 2007, May 8–12, 2007, Banff, Alberta, Canada.
ACM 978-1-59593-654-7/07/0005. 
.

3. ONTOLOGY-LEARNING APPROACH

The main idea of the ontology-learning approach is to cap-
ture the relationships between the words contained in a tag,
and match tags if both the words are similar (dictionary-
based approach) and the relationships are equivalent. This
approach started from the observation that people tend to
use same simple patterns if they have space constraints. In
order to discover the patterns and conﬁrm our theory, all
27,026 tags from 919 WSDL ﬁles pulled oﬀ the Internet were
categorized into several patterns.

No. tags
22,126
2,585
17,885

Pattern

Example

Preﬁx +Noun1 +Noun2

LegalContractID

Property+Noun

Verb+Noun

ClientName

selectGift

The ontology-learning approach starts from these observa-
tions and reﬁnes the dictionary-based approach as described
below.

Step 1. Ontology Learning The ﬁrst step in the ontology-

learning approach is capturing the relationships between the
words in a tag, as given by the observed patterns, and save
them in an ontology (see Table 1). Using these rules, a
source ontology is generated from the source WS collection,

WWW 2007 / Poster PaperTopic: Semantic Web1241Table 1: Transformation rules

Rule Pattern

Relationships

Preﬁx+Noun1+Noun2 Preﬁx+Noun1 hasProperty Tag

Adjective+Noun

Verb+Noun

Tag subclassOf Noun2
Tag subclassOf Noun
Tag hasObject Noun
Tag hasVerb Verb

while a target ontology from the target WS collection. The
following step in the ontology-learning matching is to match
the two source and target ontologies.

Step2. Ontology Matching Similar to the process de-
scribed in Section 2, the ontology-learning approach ﬁnds all
the matches that contain related words, and uses a ﬁlter to
extract the ﬁnal matches. The main diﬀerence is that tags
are matched based on word similarity and on the relation-
ships between words. Two ontological concepts are matched
if and only if one of the following is true:

The concepts are synonyms of each other, as
given by a dictionary (e.g., Client matches Cus-
tomer )
One concept (or its synonym) is the property
of the other concept (e.g., StateCode is a property
of State)
One concept (or its synonym) is the subclass
of the other concept (e.g., OrderID is a subclass
of ID)
The concepts are matched only if all their
relationships are matched (e.g., ClientLocation
matches CustomerAddress because Client is a syn-
onym of Customer, Location is a synonym of Address,
and the relationship between ClientLocation and Lo-
cation is identical with the relationship between Cus-
tomerAddress and Address).

Based on the above rules, the reﬁned ontology-learning
technique deﬁnes which tags are really connected to each
other, and avoids generating matches between irrelevant con-
cepts (i.e., false positives).

Step 3. Generating Matches The next step is ﬁnding
the tag matches given the matches between concepts at the
ontology level. Similar to the dictionary-based approach,
the quality of a match is reﬂected by its similarity score.

4. EVALUATION

The goal of the evaluation is to quantify the improvement
brought by the ontology-learning approach when compared
to the dictionary-based approach. As Figure 1 shows, the
ontology-learning approach generates 65% correct matches,
while the dictionary-based approach generates 68%. How-
ever, the ontology-learning approach generates only 14% in-
correct matches, which is considerable lower than the num-
ber generated by the dictionary-based approach 58%.

5. RELATED WORK

Researchers have done a considerable amount of work on
the problem of Web service matching [4, 2]. However, they
treat all terms from a WSDL document as a bag of words
and do not guarantee a match of operations to operations,
messages to messages, etc. Knowledge Representation (KR)
community [6] learns ontologies from glossaries and free form

Figure 1: Quality of results

text based on documents with a lot of contextual informa-
tion; Web services often do not have any documentation
beyond a set of words/terms used to describe various pa-
rameters. Work on totally or mostly automatic ontology
extraction includes [1, 3, 5]. However, most of them require
big data sets or context information (e.g., corpus, dictionary
and relation schema).

6. CONCLUSION AND FUTURE WORK

This paper described an ontology-learning approach to
Web service matching. Its main contributions are the capa-
bility to automatically learn ontologies based on Web service
descriptions and use these ontologies to guide the Web ser-
vice matching process.

7. ADDITIONAL AUTHORS

Additional authors: Richard Goodwin (IBM TJ Watson

Research Center, email: rgoodwin@us.ibm.com).

8. REFERENCES
[1] E. Agirre, O. Ansa, E. Hovy, and D. Martinez.

Enriching very large ontologies using the WWW. In
Proceedings of the Workshop on Ontology Construction
of the European Conference of AI (ECAI-00), 2000.

[2] X. Dong, A. Halevy, J. Madhavan, E. Nemes, and

J. Zhang. Similarity search for web services. In
Proceedings of VLDB, 2004.

[3] A. Faatz and R. Steinmetz. Ontology enrichment with

texts from the WWW. In Semantic Web Mining 2nd
Workshop at ECML/PKDD-2002, 2002.

[4] A. Hess and N. Kushmerick. Learning to attach

semantic metadata to web services. In Proceedings of
2nd International Semantic Web Conference
(ISWC2003), 2003.

[5] J. Jannink. Thesaurus entry extraction from an on-line

dictionary. In Proceedings of Fusion ’99, 1999.

[6] P. Y. Glossont: A concept focussed ontology building
tool. In Knowledge Representation Conference. 2004.

WWW 2007 / Poster PaperTopic: Semantic Web1242