Personalized Search and Exploration with MyTag

Max Braun, Klaas Dellschaft, Thomas Franz,
Dominik Hering, Peter Jungen, Hagen Metzler,

Eugen Müller, Alexander Rostilov, Carsten

Saathoff

Koblenz, Germany

ISWeb Working Group, University of Koblenz-Landau

{maxbraun, klaasd, franz, hdomra, peju,

haegarm, vikam, alero, saathoff}@uni-koblenz.de

Categories and Subject Descriptors:
H.5.4 Hypertext/Hypermedia: Navigation
General Terms: Design.
Keywords: Personomy, Searching, Tagging.

1.

INTRODUCTION

Nowadays Web 2.0 platforms like YouTube [6], Flickr [3]
and del.icio.us [2] provide large amounts of resources such
as videos, photographs and social bookmarks. Common to
the platforms is the classiﬁcation by so called tags that can
be used for organization and retrieval.

A current limitation of tagging platforms is their conﬁne-
ment to a single media type. Furthermore, a magnitude of
platforms exists for each media type. Thus, in both cases of
searching resources of either the same or of diﬀerent media
type, a user has to search multiple platforms [7]. For exam-
ple, a user needs to search on del.icio.us, RawSugar [4] and
Bibsonomy [1] to ﬁnd bookmarks or on Flickr and YouTube
to ﬁnd media related to e.g. an artist.

Another limitation results from the ranking of resources
as implemented by platforms such as YouTube, Flickr, and
del.icio.us. Usually, the overall popularity of a resource is
used for ranking search results. A personalized search is cur-
rently missing that takes the interests of a user into account.
MyTag1 aims at solving the previously described limita-
tions of current tagging platforms by enabling cross-media
search across images, video, and social bookmarks. It oﬀers
transparent access to diﬀerent single-media platforms cur-
rently including Flickr, YouTube, and del.icio.us (cf. Sec-
tion 2). Furthermore, it introduces personalization features
such as a personalized ranking of search results (cf. Sec-
tion 3). The architecture of MyTag ensures its extensibility
towards further tagging platforms (cf. Section 4).

2. CROSS-MEDIA SEARCH AND

EXPLORATION

On its start page, MyTag welcomes its users with a sin-
gle input ﬁeld where the search tags can be entered. By

1

http://mytag.uni-koblenz.de. This work has been par-
tially supported by the European project Semiotic Dynamics
in Online Social Communities (TAGora, FP6-2005-34721).

Copyright is held by the author/owner(s).
WWW 2008, April 21–25, 2008, Beijing, China.
ACM 978-1-60558-085-2/08/04.

default, all platforms currently integrated into MyTag are
then searched for the tags. The search results for each me-
dia type are presented as separate results sets in diﬀerent
columns that can be sorted by popularity and creation date
(cf. Fig. 2).

For every resource in the result sets, its title, a preview,
and the creation date are shown. For bookmarks, the pre-
view is a snapshot of the website that is provided by a mash-
up with the service of Snap.com. The snapshot is shown by
moving the mouse over the icon next to the title of the book-
mark. Furthermore, for each resource its associated tags are
shown. Clicking on the preview of a resource opens a new
window that oﬀers additional details about the resource and
links to its occurrences on the original platform. Above the
results, a tag-cloud is shown that summarizes the most fre-
quent tags in the result set. The font size of each tag is
proportional to its occurrence frequency.

In MyTag, clicking on a tag reﬁnes the previous search
query by adding the tag. This helps in disambiguating
the search and giving it the intended direction, and thus in
dealing with the problem of homonyms. The user can eas-
ily explore diﬀerent directions in adding or removing tags.
This paradigm is in contrast to platforms like Flickr and
del.icio.us, where selecting a tag results in a new search with
that tag only.

3. PERSONALIZATION

Two personalization features are provided for search: First,
a search can be restricted to resources uploaded by the user.
This feature requires that a user enters her external account
names for Flickr, del.icio.us, and/or YouTube into her pro-
ﬁle. Searching own resources is implemented by using the
corresponding feature from the integrated tagging platforms.

The second personalization feature allows for ranking search

results based on the user’s personomy. The personomy is
automatically built based on the resources the user picks
from the result set. It is modeled by a vector p of tag fre-
quencies representing the previous search interests of the
user. As it is based on the implicit feedback given by select-
ing from the search results, no additional user eﬀort is re-
quired to gain personalization. Using implicit user feedback
is a very promising approach to personalizing search results
or web browsing in general (cf. [10] and [9]). This feature
adds an advantage compared to systems such as Flickr and
del.icio.us, where personalization requires adding resources
to the system, i. e. the explicit feedback of users.

1031WWW 2008 / Poster PaperApril 21-25, 2008 · Beijing, ChinaFigure 1: Screenshot of a MyTag Search Result

The current MyTag platform implements a ranking algo-
rithm that combines information from the personomy and
the tags assigned to resources of a result set. The tags of
a resource are represented as a vector v of binary values
indicating the presence of a tag. The rank r of a resource
is then computed by the scalar product of the two vectors:
r = v· p. It is then used for ordering the resources based on
their rank value.

4. ARCHITECTURE

MyTag is implemented using the Ruby on Rails framework
[5] as it supports eﬃcient development of web-applications.
The MyTag architecture realizes the model-view-controller
paradigm (MVC). The three layers of the MyTag architec-
ture are shown in Fig. 2. The view layer at the top is re-
sponsible for the interaction with the user while the control
layer in the middle processes data from the model layer, e.g.
by computing personalized rankings.

Figure 2: MyTag Architecture

The model layer consists of two core parts: First, the in-
terface to the local database that contains the user proﬁles

and personomies. Second, a generic interface that abstracts
core functionality provided by the APIs of the external tag-
ging platforms, ensuring MyTag’s future extensibility.

5. CONCLUSIONS

MyTag provides intuitive cross-media search and explo-
ration over multiple tagging platforms. Personalized rank-
ings of search results are featured by incorporating implicit
user feedback gathered during the search activities of a user.
As future work, we plan to evaluate and enhance the per-
sonalized ranking algorithm and compare it with state-of-
the-art approaches like FolkRank [8]. Furthermore, we will
focus on algorithms for merging search results from diﬀerent
platforms into a single result set.

6. REFERENCES
[1] Bibsonomy website. http://bibsonomy.org.
[2] Del.icio.us website. http://del.icio.us.
[3] Flickr website. http://flickr.com.
[4] Rawsugar website. http://rawsugar.com.
[5] Ruby on rails website. http://www.rubyonrails.org/.
[6] Youtube website. http://youtube.com.
[7] G. Anadiotis, T. Franz, and S. Boll. W3C Multimedia

Semantics Incubator Group: Tagging Use Case.
http://www.w3.org/2005/Incubator/mmsem/wiki/Tagging_Use_Case,
2007.

[8] A. Hotho, R. J¨aschke, C. Schmitz, and G. Stumme. Trend

detection in folksonomies. In Proc. of the International
Conference on Semantic and Digital Media Technologies,
2006.

[9] D. Mladenic. Web browsing using machine learning on text

data. In P. Szczepaniak, J. Segovia, J. Kacprzyk, and
L. Zadeh, editors, Intelligent exploration of the web.
Physica-Verlag, 2002.

[10] K. Sugiyama, K. Hatano, and M. Yoshikawa. Adaptive web
search based on user proﬁle constructed without any eﬀort
from users. In Proc. of the 13th WWW Conference, 2004.

1032WWW 2008 / Poster PaperApril 21-25, 2008 · Beijing, China