A General Framework for Adaptive and Online

Detection of Web attacks

Wei Wang∗

Project AxIS, INRIA Sophia

Antipolis

2004 route des lucioles
06902 Sophia Antipolis

FRANCE

Florent Masseglia

Project AxIS, INRIA Sophia

Antipolis

2004 route des lucioles
06902 Sophia Antipolis

FRANCE

wwangemail@gmail.com

ﬂorent.masseglia@sophia.inria.fr

Thomas Guyet

Projet DREAM, IRISA
Campus de Beaulieu

35042 Rennes, FRANCE
thomas.guyet@irisa.fr

Rene Quiniou

Projet DREAM, IRISA
Campus de Beaulieu

35042 Rennes, FRANCE
rene.quiniou@irisa.fr

Marie-Odile Cordier
Projet DREAM, IRISA
Campus de Beaulieu

35042 Rennes, FRANCE

marie-

odile.cordier@irisa.fr

ABSTRACT
Detection of web attacks is an important issue in current
defense-in-depth security framework. In this paper, we pro-
pose a novel general framework for adaptive and online de-
tection of web attacks. The general framework can be based
on any online clustering methods. A detection model based
on the framework is able to learn online and deal with “con-
cept drift” in web audit data streams. Str-DBSCAN that we
extended DBSCAN [1] to streaming data as well as StrAP
[3] are both used to validate the framework. The detec-
tion model based on the framework automatically labels
the web audit data and adapts to normal behavior changes
while identiﬁes attacks through dynamical clustering of the
streaming data. A very large size of real HTTP Log data col-
lected in our institute is used to validate the framework and
the model. The preliminary testing results demonstrated its
eﬀectiveness.

Categories and Subject Descriptors
C.2.0 [Computer-Communication Networks]: General—
Security and protection

General Terms
Algorithms, Experimentation, Measurement, Security

Keywords
Anomaly detection, Intrusion detection, Clustering

1.

INTRODUCTION

Anomaly intrusion detection is a widely studied topic in
computer networks because of its capability of detecting
∗The author has moved to Q2S Center of Excellence, NTNU,
Norway.

Copyright is held by the author/owner(s).
WWW 2009, April 20–24, 2009, Madrid, Spain.
ACM 978-1-60558-487-4/09/04.

novel attacks. Anomaly detection normally builds a proﬁle
of a subject’s normal activities and attempts to identify any
unacceptable deviation as possibly the result of an attack.
Many existing anomaly IDSs (Intrusion Detection System)
have some diﬃculties for practical use.

First, a large amount of precisely labeled data is very
diﬃcult to obtain in practice.
In contrast, many existing
anomaly detection approaches need precisely labeled data
to train the detection model. Second, data for intrusion
detection is typically steaming and the detection models
should be frequently updated with new incoming labeled
data. However, many existing anomaly detection methods
involve oﬀ-line learning. Quickly and manually labeling the
data is diﬃcult and thus it is quite expensive to frequently
re-train the IDS with new clean labeled data. Third, many
current anomaly detection approaches assume that the data
distribution is stationary and the model is static accord-
ingly.
In practice, however, data involved in current net-
work environments always evolves. An eﬀective anomaly
detection method, therefore, should have adaptive capabil-
ity to deal with the “concept drift” problem. That is, the
model should be automatically updated to adapt to normal
behaviors when there is a change detected.

2. THE FRAMEWORK

Our framework has a assumption that normal data is very
large while abnormal data is rare in practical detection en-
vironments. During the clustering process, we use the size
as well as looseness of each cluster to identify the anomalies.
Our framework adaptively detects attacks with the following
three steps (the pseudo code is described in Fig. 1).

• Step 1. Building the initial model with some online
clustering algorithms. The ﬁrst bunch of data is clus-
tered and the exemplars (or cluster centers) as well as
their associated items are thus obtained. Some outliers
are identiﬁed, marked as suspicious and then put into
a reservoir.

• Step 2. Identifying outliers and updating the model
in the data streaming environment. As the audit data

WWW 2009 MADRID!Poster Sessions: Thursday, April 23, 20091141stream ﬂows in, each incoming data item is compared
to the exemplars. If too far from the nearest exemplar,
the item is identiﬁed as an outlier, marked as suspi-
cious and then put into the reservoir. Otherwise the
item is regarded as normal and the model is updated
accordingly with the normal item.

• Step 3. Rebuilding the model and identifying attacks.
The model rebuilding criterion is triggered if the num-
ber of incoming outliers exceeds a threshold or if a
time period is up to another threshold. The detection
model is rebuilt with the current exemplars and with
the outliers in the reservoir, using the clustering algo-
rithm again. An attack is identiﬁed if an outlier in the
reservoir is marked as suspicious once again after the
model rebuilding.

Audit data stream x1, . . . xt, . . .; ﬁt threshold N, ǫ
Clustering (x1, . . . , xT ) with some clustering algorithms

ei is the exemplar (clustering center) of one cluster
ni is the number of items in exemplar ei
µi is the mean sum of the distances between each ex-

emplar ei and its corresponding items
Reservoir = {}
if ni ≤ N or µi ≥ ǫ then

Reservoir ← all items xj in ei

end if
for t > T do

ﬁnd ei which is the nearest exemplar to item xt
if d(ei, xt) < ǫ then

Update model

else

Reservoir ← xt

end if
if change detected then

Rebuild the model (Re-clustering)
Consider all the exemplars ej in Reservoir
if ej appears at least twice in Reservoir and (nj ≤ N
or µj ≥ ǫ) then

all the items in ej are attacks

else

Update the model

end if

end if
end for

Fig.1. Pseudo code of the framework

3. DETECTION MODELS BASED ON THE

FRAMEWORK

The detection models can be based on any online cluster-
ing algorithms. We extend DBSCAN [1] to Str-DBSCAN
that is suitable for clustering streaming data. The Str-
DBSCAN as well as a newly invented StrAP [3] are both
used to build the detection models based on the framework,
because these two clustering algorithms have no need to de-
ﬁne the number of clusters beforehand.

DBSCAN is a density based clustering algorithm. Af-
ter the initial clustering, each cluster is represented by an
exemplar that is closest to its center.
In data streaming
environments, upon a “concept change” has been detected,
Str-DBSCAN clusters all the current exemplars as well as

the outliers that are the points far from the exemplars. Dur-
ing the clustering, we continually update the exemplars with
some weights, so that some exemplars will be forgotten if
they seldom appear in a period while some exemplars will
be strengthened if they appear very frequently.

Aﬃnity Propagation (AP) is a recently developed cluster-
ing algorithm and Zhang et al. extended it to StrAP in data
steaming environments. AP clusters an initial data set and
ﬁnds some exemplars to represent each cluster. In stream-
ing environments, similarly StrAP continually updates the
clusters and deal with “concept drift” in the data streams.

4. EXPERIMENTS AND CONCLUSION

In the experiments, we collected a very large data set of
HTTP logs on the main Apache server of our institute for
web attack detection. We also used another 35 diﬀerent
types of attack (http://www.i-pi.com/HTTP-attacks-JoCN-
2006 [2]) to increase the number of attacks. To facilitate
comparison, we also used k-NN to build a static model for
attack detection. We set k=1 and compute the closest Eu-
clidean distance between an incoming test vector X and each
vector in the training data set. X is classiﬁed as anomalous
if its closest distance is above a pre-deﬁned threshold.

100

 

)

%

(
 

e

t

a
R
n
o

 

i
t
c
e

t

e
D

80

60

40

20

 
0

StrAP
kNN
Str−DBSCAN

5
10
False Positive Rate (%)

15

Fig.2. ROC curves with Str-DBSCAN, StrAP and k-NN

ROC curves (Detection Rates against False Positive Rates)
are presented in Fig. 1 to show the testing results. It is seen
that adaptive anomaly detection methods, Str-DBSCAN as
well as StrAP, are more eﬀective than static detection method,
k-NN, because adaptive methods adopt to the behavioral
changes while the static method does not. The adaptive
methods are also eﬀecient than static method because adap-
tive methods summarize the historical data into some simple
concepts (e.g., exemplars) while the static method does not.
Web attack detection is becoming important as Web-based
vulnerabilities represent a substantial portion of the security
exposures of computer networks. Our framework is eﬀective
to detect attacks in an online and adaptive fashion without
a priori knowledge (e.g., data distribution as well as labeled
information).

5. REFERENCES
[1] M. Ester. A density-based algorithm for discovering

clusters in large spatial databases with noise. In KDD,
1996.

[2] K. Ingham and H. Inoue. Comparing anomaly detection

techniques for http. In 10th International Symposium
on Recent Advances in Intrusion Detection, 2007.

[3] X. Zhang, C. Furtlehner, and M. Sebag. Data streaming

with aﬃnity propagation. In ECML/PKDD, 2008.

WWW 2009 MADRID!Poster Sessions: Thursday, April 23, 20091142