Crosslanguage Blog Mining and Trend Visualisation

Andreas Jufﬁnger

Know-Center

Inffeldgasse 21A/II

Graz, Austria

ajufﬁnger@know-center.at

Elisabeth Lex
Know-Center

Inffeldgasse 21A/II

Graz, Austria

elex@know-center.at

ABSTRACT
People use weblogs to express thoughts, present ideas and
share knowledge, therefore weblogs are extraordinarily valu-
able resources, amongs others, for trend analysis. Trends are
derived from the chronological sequence of blog post count
per topic. The comparison with a reference corpus allows
qualitative statements over identiﬁed trends. We propose a
crosslanguage blog mining and trend visualisation system to
analyse blogs across languages and topics. The trend visu-
alisation facilitates the identiﬁcation of trends and the com-
parison with the reference news article corpus. To prove the
correctness of our system we computed the correlation be-
tween trends in blogs and news articles for a subset of blogs
and topics. The evaluation corroborated our hypothesis of
a high correlation coeﬃcient for these subsets and therefore
the correctness of our system for diﬀerent languages and
topics is proven.

Categories and Subject Descriptors
H.4.m [Information Systems]: Web Content, Blogosphere

General Terms
Algorithms, Experimentation

1.

INTRODUCTION

Weblogs are used to express thoughts, to present ideas and
to share knowledge, so topics posted in weblogs are highly
applicable for trend analysis. In our project for the Austria
Press Agency (APA)1 we aim to exploit the “collective wis-
dom” on the web in a sense of comparing the “collective opin-
ion” against the “news opinion”. The blogosphere[1] presents
an opportunity for us to understand the inﬂuence of cer-
tain news to the public and their propagation by analysing
unsolicited feedback[3] in blogs. The ability to derive the
propagation of news messages around the world makes it
necessary to support diﬀerent languages.

Related work in the ﬁeld of blog mining, inﬂuence in blogs
and propagation, and blog visualisation reveals a strong ev-
idence that the blogosphere correlates with the real world
based on quantitative and qualitative analysis. Drezner and
Farrel were able to show[2] that there is an interdependency

1http://www.apa.at

Copyright is held by the author/owner(s).
WWW 2009, April 20–24, 2009, Madrid, Spain.
ACM 978-1-60558-487-4/09/04.

between blogs and the real world. BlogPulse2, a blog analy-
sis service, use the percentage of all posts concerned with a
topic of interest to show trends in blogs. Google Trends3, a
visualisation of search patterns, depicts the number of times
a topic occurs in Google News as a reference line.

2. CROSSLANGUAGE BLOG MINING

Blog mining is deﬁned as the integrated discipline of web
and text mining, with reﬁned techniques from social network
analysis for the speciﬁc structure and content of weblogs.
Our blog mining system implements a high performance
web miner and can incrementally load and parse blog sites.
During the blog parsing step we transform the unstructured
content into a structured blog entry and thus prepare the
content for our text mining unit. For this purpose we de-
veloped a semiautomatic blog site parser based on relative
XPath queries[6]. From the structured blog entries we ex-
tract named entities and the language of the blog posts.
Title and content of the posts are then indexed in language
speciﬁc indices with Apache Lucene4.

Figure 1: Query Translation with Wikipedia

The applied methodology for crosslanguage retrieval is
based on wikipedia statistics as outlined in [4]. The applied
workﬂow for query translation for the blog mining system is
shown in Figure 1. Our primary data source is the German
APA news corpus, so the query language is restricted to Ger-
man. Each query is used to search in the German Wikipedia
index. From the top ﬁfty result documents we extract the
linked Wikipedia articles for each target language (English,
French, Spanish and Italian). The result of this extraction
step is a set of relevant articles in every language. These
articles are then used to extract the statistically most sig-
niﬁcant terms for each language in the context of the query.
The signiﬁcant terms are then used to search the language
speciﬁc blog index.
2http://blogpulse.com
3http://trends.google.com
4http://lucene.apache.org

WWW 2009 MADRID!Poster Sessions: Thursday, April 23, 200911493. BLOG TREND VISUALISATION

The Blog Trend Visualisation is embedded in the APA
Labs5 framework. APA Labs enables to search the news
repository, to navigate results through result lists and to
visually analyse search query results and article content[5].
The Blog Trend Visualisation shows APA articles and blog
entries over a speciﬁc time period. Besides, the articles are
also available in a tabular view. The Blog Trend Visuali-
sation shows trends and language speciﬁc propagation over
time at a glance and serves as a starting point for qualitative
analyses. Figure 2 gives an example of the visualisation for
the search query term “Bush”. The time period is limited
to the last 60 days. Three days are then summarised and
depicted by a coloured bar. Symbols for blog entries and
articles are shown on the bar if results are present for this
timeslot.

Figure 2: Visualisation for query “Bush”

The blog entries are shown in the top section of the visual-
isation. Each blog entry is represented by an icon consisting
of a green rectangle and a ﬂag that denotes the language of
the blog entry. In Figure 2 German, English, French and
Italian blog entries are present. Each blog entry icon pro-
vides a tooltip that shows the title. The icon can also be
used to navigate to the associated blog entry on the external
blog site.

Orange circles represent the news articles in the bottom
section of the visualisation. The size of a circle corresponds
to the number of articles found to the search query for the
particular timeslot. Clicking a circle restricts the articles in
the tabular view to articles of the selected timeslot.

4. EVALUATION

To evaluate our crosslanguage system we analysed the cor-
relation between news articles and a selection of blogs. For
a high correlation coeﬃcient between news articles and blog
entries the selection of blogs is crucial. Consequently, an
automatic approach for blog selection was not an option.
For the evaluation we handselected about 40 blogs by popu-
larity, actuality and signiﬁcance to guarantee that the blogs
are active and current. Furthermore, only blogs dealing with
current events were selected to guarantee a high correlation
with news articles. The blogs are equally distributed over
topics and languages because experiments also revealed that
one single blog can glut the system and overlap the origi-
nally correlated functions. We evaluated the correlation for
15 person names, 15 location names, and 15 arbitrary query
terms. Figure 3 shows the mean, standard deviation, mini-
mum and maximum of the correlation between the number
of blog entries and number of news articles.

The evaluation for diﬀerent languages (top image) revealed
that the system performs equally good for German, French

5http://www.apa.at/labs

Figure 3: Correlation between News and Blogs

and English, although the correlation for English was lower
caused by the selection of blogs. For the multilanguage ex-
periment we achieved a smaller standard deviation due to
the higher number of blog entries in the input data (all blog
entries vs. blog entries in a speciﬁc language) what led to
a higher statistical robustness. The overall correlation co-
eﬃcient for multilanguage retrieval was 0.55 (bottom im-
age, rightmost bars) with a standard deviation of 0.18, a
maximum of 0.93 and minimum of 0.02. Consequently, the
system is robust for the diﬀerent types of query terms and
languages.

5. CONCLUSIONS

Our crosslanguage blog mining and trend visualisation
system enables to identify trends in blogs in analogy to a
news article repository. The visualisation shows the diﬀu-
sion of a topic of interest and serves as a starting point for
in-depth qualitative analyses. Additionally, we are able to
show a strong correlation between news articles and selected
blogs across diﬀerent languages. Consequently, we can con-
tinuously validate our system and identify topic drifts even
in foreign languages.

6. ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

The Know-Center is funded within the Austrian COMET
Program under the auspices of the Austrian Ministry of VIT,
Austrian Ministry of WA and by the State of Styria.

7. REFERENCES
[1] N. Agarwal and H. Liu. Blogosphere: Research issues,

tools, and applications. SIGKDD Explorations, 2008.
[2] D. Drezner and H. Farrell. The power and politics of

blogs. In Proc. of the APSA Conf., 2004.

[3] N. Glance, M. Hurst, K. Nigam, M. Siegler,

R. Stockton, and T. Tomokiyo. Deriving marketing
intelligence from online discussion. In Proc. of the
Knowldege Discovery and Data Mining Conf., 2005.

[4] A. Juﬃnger, R. Kern, and M. Granitzer. Crosslanguage

retrieval based on wikipedia statistics. In Proc. of
CLEF 2008 Workshop, Aarhus, 2008.

[5] W. Kienreich, E. Lex, and C. Seifert. APA Labs: an

experimental web-based platform for the retrieval and
analysis of news articles. Proc. of ICADIWT, 2008.

[6] M. Kowalkiewicz, M. E. Orlowska, T. Kaczmarek, and

W. Abramowicz. Robust web content extraction. In
Proc. of the 15th int. conf. on World Wide Web, 2006.

WWW 2009 MADRID!Poster Sessions: Thursday, April 23, 20091150