Personalized View-Based Search and Visualization as a

Means for Deep/Semantic Web Data Access

Michal Tvarožek

Mária Bieliková

Institute of Informatics and Software Engineering

Institute of Informatics and Software Engineering

Slovak University of Technology

Ilkoviˇcova 3, 842 16 Bratislava, Slovakia

tvarozek@ﬁit.stuba.sk

Slovak University of Technology

Ilkoviˇcova 3, 842 16 Bratislava, Slovakia

bielik@ﬁit.stuba.sk

ABSTRACT
Eﬀective access to and navigation in information stored in
deep Web ontological repositories or relational databases has
yet to be realized due to issues with usability of user inter-
faces and the overall scope and complexity of information as
well as the nature of exploratory user tasks. We propose the
integration and adaptation of novel navigation and visualiza-
tion approaches to faceted browsing such as visual depiction
of facets and restrictions, visual navigation in (clusters of)
search results and graph like exploration of individual search
results’ properties.

Categories and Subject Descriptors: H.3.3 [Informa-
tion Storage and Retrieval]:
Information Search and Re-
trieval; H.5.2 [Information interfaces and presentation (e.g.,
HCI]: User Interfaces—Graphical user interfaces (GUI); H.5.4
[Information interfaces and presentation (e.g., HCI]: Hyper-
text/ Hypermedia—Navigation

General Terms: Algorithms, Design, Experimentation

Keywords: navigation, visualization, view-based search,
personalized faceted browsing, graph visualization

1.

INTRODUCTION

Presently, eﬀective access, navigation and user understand-
ing of Semantic Web and deep Web resources has yet to be
realized due to various issues with user interface complexity,
query languages and usability among others. View-based
search approaches have already been proposed as suitable
means for integrated search and navigation in various ap-
plication domains. Since both Semantic Web and deep Web
repositories describe the structure of the respective informa-
tion spaces via metadata, faceted browsers can be used as ef-
fective entry points providing users with powerful interfaces
for querying, navigation and visualization of information.

We proposed the concept of an adaptive faceted browser
to address issues concerning the size, complexity and user
diversity of open information spaces in [3]. The faceted
browser is personalized based on an automatically acquired
user model using dynamic generation and adaptation of facets
and restrictions according to user characteristics. However,
our original approach was, as other existing faceted browsers,
purely text-based, while many related approaches to search-
ing and navigation focus on visual methods of navigation
and visualization with promising results.

Copyright is held by the author/owner(s).
WWW 2008, April 21–25, 2008, Beijing, China.
ACM 978-1-60558-085-2/08/04.

Authors in [4] describe CropCirles – an approach to the
visualization of OWL class hierarchies. The approach vi-
sualizes hierarchies as nested circles of diﬀerent sizes and
layouts in order to improve user understanding of the re-
spective information domain. The ideas proposed by this
approach can also be used to improve faceted browsing of
deep faceted hierarchies, which are diﬃcult to understand
for many users.

TagSphere is an approach to visual presentation of search
results originally developed for the digital image domain [1].
It presents search results visually in sets based on their as-
sociated tags. For each set, its similarity to the query is
shown via distance and the overlap between a tag search
and a classiﬁer search based on low-level image properties.
Applying a similar approach to faceted browser search re-
sults presents a great improvement in user understanding of
the information space compared to the typical table-based
list of search results displayed by faceted browsers.

2. VIEW-BASED SEARCH VISUALIZATION

We proposed an extension of our original adaptive faceted
browser with support for advanced visualization techniques
for facets, search results and instance details, and their re-
spective personalization, taking into account the user’s con-
text (i.e., preferences, social networks or environment).
2.1 Facet and restriction visualization

We provide a search window for each facet, where users
can type labels of the desired restrictions for quick access.
Additionally, we employ three modes of facet visualization:
(cid:129) Text-based facet visualization – all restrictions are shown
via their respective textual labels. This is useful for
enumerations, shallow hierarchies or if there are only
few restrictions.

(cid:129) Graphical facet visualization – all restrictions are shown
graphically as nested circles/nodes. Size indicates the
number of instances, color is used for recommendation,
while their relative distance denotes similarity. Indi-
vidual circles are annotated with labels (e.g., directly
or via tooltips). Other shapes, icons or images can also
be used to more closely describe facet contents (e.g.,
for multi-type queries). This mode is suitable for com-
plex hierarchies or facets with many restrictions.

(cid:129) Hybrid textual and graphical visualization – restrictions
are shown both in textual and graphical form, which is
suitable for low to medium number of restrictions yet
forming a complex hierarchy.

1023WWW 2008 / Poster PaperApril 21-25, 2008 · Beijing, China2.2 Search results visualization

In addition to traditional search results tables and matri-
ces with attributes, we employ a graphical overview of the
returned search results based on a hierarchical clustering vi-
sualization (see Fig. 1). One central root cluster contains
search results satisfying the current faceted query. One or
more nested levels of clusters are shown corresponding to
search results based either on a hierarchical attribute from
the classiﬁcation or on a custom clustering function. Indi-
vidual clusters are annotated with short labels summarizing
their contents.

Additionally, examples of instances are shown as tooltips,
while the size, relative layout and color provide further in-
formation about instance counts, similarity, relevance (e.g.,
via a user’s social network) and overall suitability (e.g., via
user characteristics). A second layer of clusters can be op-
tionally used to present “fuzzy” search results which do not
satisfy the faceted query, yet are reasonably similar and thus
possibly of interest to the user (similarly to [1]).

Figure 1: Search results visualization using hierar-
chical clusters.

2.3 Instance details visualization

To improve user understanding of individual search re-

sults, we proposed three visualizations of instance details:
(cid:129) Textual attribute visualization – individual attributes
of the viewed instance are displayed in a nested ta-
ble with a predeﬁned or adaptive nesting depth. The
nesting is used for complex data types, e.g. object
properties for OWL ontologies.

(cid:129) Graphical neighborhood visualization – the context of
a search result instance is displayed via a hierarchical
cluster view of similar instances based on its properties
(e.g., photos with the same author, job oﬀers oﬀered
by the same company) or an aggregate clustering func-
tion. Size, colors and relative positions of clusters are
used for further annotation along with tooltips simi-
larly as with facets and restrictions.

(cid:129) Graphical attribute visualization – the attributes of the
search result instance are displayed as a graph, which
can further be expanded to show attributes of associ-
ated instances. Simple data type attributes are shown

Venue: WWW
- Year: 2007

paper

venue

Venue: ICWE
- Year: 2007

venue

Venue: SOFSEM
- Year: 2008

+

Poster: Adaptive Faceted Browser for
Navigation in Open Information Spaces

Demo: Personalized Faceted
Navigation in the Semantic Web

venue

similar

Paper: Improving Semantic Search
Via Integrated Personalized Faceted
and Visual Graph Navigation
- Pages: 12
- Year: 2008

author

authorOf

+

authorOf

Author: Michal Tvarožek
- Affiliation: FIIT SUT
- Email: michal@stuba.sk

Author: Michal Barla

Author: Mária Bieliková

Figure 2: Graphical instance attribute visualization.

directly in nodes, while object type attributes corre-
spond to other nodes connected to each other via edges
corresponding to properties (for OWL data). Further-
more, the center can be moved from the original in-
stance to another instance eﬀectively resulting in a
moving window showing the information space. The
neighborhood of individual attributes can be shown,
similarly to the previous visualization based on in-
stance types (e.g., similar instances of the same type
can be shown in hierarchical clusters) (see Fig. 2).

3. CONCLUSIONS

We have presented a novel method of navigation and vi-
sualization for faceted browsers, which are suitable for deal-
ing with large complex information spaces such as Semantic
Web metadata represented by OWL ontologies, or deep web
data stored in large repositories. An important feature is the
dynamic generation of facets and their visualization that en-
ables access to these large information spaces without prior
knowledge about their structure.

We extended the concept of faceted browsing with support
for graphical depiction of facets, search results and instance
attributes while also applying our personalization principles
to the new visualization approach. Our extensions improve
overall user experience and the understanding of the respec-
tive information space especially for open-ended exploratory
tasks. We evaluate our extensions in three domains – job of-
fer domain, digital libraries and photo galleries.

Acknowledgments. This work was supported by the Slo-
vak Research and Development Agency, contract No. APVT-
20-007104, the State programme of research and develop-
ment, contract No. 1025/04 and the Scientiﬁc Grant Agency
of Slovak Republic, grant No. VG1/3102/06.

4. REFERENCES
[1] M. Aurnhammer, P. Hanappe, and L. Steels. Augmenting

navigation for collaborative tagging with emergent semantics. In
I. F. Cruz et al. [2], pages 58–71.

[2] I. F. Cruz et al., editor. Proc. of the 5th Int. Semantic Web

Conference, volume 4273 of LNCS. Springer, 2006.

[3] M. Tvaroˇzek and M. Bielikov´a. Adaptive faceted browser for

navigation in open information spaces. In C. L. Williamson et
al., editor, WWW, pages 1311–1312. ACM, 2007.

[4] T. D. Wang and B. Parsia. Cropcircles: Topology sensitive

visualization of owl class hierarchies. In I. F. Cruz et al. [2],
pages 695–708.

1024WWW 2008 / Poster PaperApril 21-25, 2008 · Beijing, China