Modeling the Temporal Dynamics of Social Rating

Networks using Bidirectional Effects of Social Relations

and Rating Patterns

Mohsen Jamali

School of Computing Science

Simon Fraser University
Burnaby, BC, Canada

mohsen_jamali@cs.sfu.ca

Gholamreza Haffari

School of Computing Science

Simon Fraser University
Burnaby, BC, Canada
ghaffar1@cs.sfu.ca

Martin Ester

School of Computing Science

Simon Fraser University
Burnaby, BC, Canada
ester@cs.sfu.ca

ABSTRACT
A social rating network (SRN) is a social network in which edges
represent social relationships and users (nodes) express ratings on
some of the given items. Such networks play an increasingly im-
portant role in reviewing websites such as Epinions.com or on-
line sharing websites like Flickr.com. In this paper, we ﬁrst ob-
serve and analyze the temporal behavior of users in a social rating
network, who express ratings and create social relations. Then,
we model the temporal dynamics of an SRN based on our obser-
vations, using the bidirectional effects of ratings and social rela-
tions. While existing models for other types of social networks
have captured some of the effects, our model is the ﬁrst one to
represent all four effects, i.e. social relations-on-ratings (social in-
ﬂuence), social relations-on-social relations (transitivity), ratings-
on-social relations (selection), and ratings-on-ratings (correlational
inﬂuence). Existing works consider these effects as static and con-
stant throughout the evolution of an SRN, however our observations
reveal that these effects are actually dynamic. We propose a proba-
bilistic generative model for SRNs, which models the strength and
dynamics of each effect throughout the network evolution. This
model can serve for the prediction of future links, ratings or com-
munity structures. Due to the sensitive nature of SRNs, another
motivation for our work is the generation of synthetic SRN data
sets for research purposes. Our experimental studies on two real
life datasets (Epinions and Flickr) demonstrate that the proposed
model produces social rating networks that agree with real world
data on a comprehensive set of evaluation criteria.

Categories and Subject Descriptors
H.2.8.d [Information Technology and Systems]: Database Appli-
cations - Data Mining

General Terms
Algorithms, Measurement, Experimentation

Keywords
User Behavioral Modeling, Social Rating Networks, Temporal Dy-
namics, Generative Models

Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Com-
mittee (IW3C2). Distribution of these papers is limited to classroom use,
and personal use by others.
WWW 2011, March 28–April 1, 2011, Hyderabad, India.
ACM 978-1-4503-0632-4/11/03.

1.

INTRODUCTION

Social networks have attracted much attention these days. Social
networking services such as Facebook, Orkut, Flickr and LiveJour-
nal, have millions of users. Users are allowed to interact with other
people besides having a proﬁle with some attributes. There have
been many works to analyze the behavior of social networks and
their growth patterns [7][15][9][10]. Most existing models consider
the social networks only as a graph with nodes and edges. Recently,
some researchers have investigated social networks which include
attributes for nodes [18][11]. In this paper we investigate Social
Rating Networks (SRN). A Social Rating Network is a social net-
work in which each user expresses ratings on some items besides
creating social relations to other users. Users in a social rating net-
work can perform two types of actions: creating a link to another
user (social action) and creating a rating for an item (rating action).
Note that the "rating action" is a general term and includes the real
valued item ratings in Epinions and Flixster and binary rating val-
ues such as joining a community in Facebook and LiveJournal or
adding a photo to your favorite list in Flickr. In other words dif-
ferent types of user behaviors can be formulated as a rating action.
In our experiments, we use one data set with real valued ratings
(Epinions) and another data set with binary ratings (Flickr).

In this paper, we analyze and model the behavior of users while
performing different actions. We also take into account the times-
tamp to analyze the temporal dynamics of user behavior. Our model
assume real valued ratings and binary ratings such as joining a com-
munity can be considered as special cases of real valued ratings.

Many effects inﬂuence the behavior of users in the evolution of
a social rating network. A fundamental property of social networks
is that people tend to behave similarly to their friends. The pro-
cess of social inﬂuence [4] in SRNs leads to people adopting the
rating behavior of their friends. Also people may adopt the rating
behavior from users having similar rating patterns. We call this
correlational inﬂuence. While this effect is the implicit foundation
of the successful collaborative ﬁltering recommenders [5], it has
not yet been explicitly considered in social network models. The
social behavior of users is also investigated. As discussed in [3],
people tend to form relationships with others who are already sim-
ilar to them, so-called selection[12]. However, we argue that social
selection is not the only mechanism inﬂuencing the social relation
creation process in SRNs. Implied by the well-known trust transi-
tivity [6], people tend to create social relations to friends of their
friends. We call this effect transitivity.

There are also some other effects that inﬂuence the behavior
of users. For example users may create social relations to other
users who live in the same location, or they may befriend their co-

WWW 2011 – Session: Temporal DynamicsMarch 28–April 1, 2011, Hyderabad, India527workers. Users may rate items they face in their daily life inde-
pendent of their friends. These effects are called environmental or
external effects [1]. Since we do not have access to these kinds of
information, we make a simplifying assumption about these kinds
of behaviors: when creating a social relation, we assume that there
is a chance that users create a link to a random existing user (rep-
resenting unknown effects) or to a new user. Similarly, there is a
chance that users rate a random existing item or a new item.

According to our observations from real life data, different ef-
fects inﬂuencing the behavior of users are dynamic. In other words,
the strength of each each effect is not constant throughout the evo-
lution of an SRN. For example, when very few users have created
social relations and the average number of social relations per user
is very low, the strength of social inﬂuence and transitivity is low,
but these effects become more important during the growth of a
social rating network in which users rate more items, create more
social relations and are exposed to more people and items. Effects
inﬂuencing the behavior of users are not the only dynamic com-
ponents governing the evolution of an SRN. At the beginning of
the evolution when there are only few nodes in the system, the rate
of new users joining the system is high. Also, the rate of creating
a social relation to a new user decreases with the increase in the
number of existing users in the system.

In this paper, based on our observations and analysis, we propose
a probabilistic generative model to model the behavior of users and
capture the temporal dynamics of different effects inﬂuencing the
behavior of users. To capture the dynamism of effects, we model
each of them as a function of some evolving features of the SRN
such as the number of users, the number of neighbors for a users,
etc.

This generative model can serve various purposes. First, there
are very few SRN datasets publicly available. This is mainly due
to privacy concerns in social networks, especially when some be-
haviors of the user should also get published. The lack of publicly
available datasets is seriously restricting research on social network
based recommendation. A generative model for social rating net-
works can be used to generate synthetic datasets with properties
similar to those of real-life datasets, which can be used for research
purposes. Moreover, the study of the evolution of social rating net-
works and the growth patterns for social networks and rating pro-
ﬁles is an important application of a generative model, providing
insights into models developed in the social sciences. Also such a
model can be used for predicting future links, ratings or community
structures.

The main contributions of this paper are as follows:
(cid:15) We analyze the temporal dynamics of SRNs and provide in-
sights on bidirectional effects of social relations and rating
patterns. We analyze and model the dynamism of effects
inﬂuencing the behavior of users in an SRN. The dynamic
nature of these effects has been neglected in the literature.

(cid:15) We present a generative model for the evolution of SRNs,
modeling different effects inﬂuencing the behavior of users.
To the best of our knowledge, our model is the ﬁrst one
to comprehensively capture all the four effects between so-
cial relations and ratings: social-on-rating (social inﬂuence),
social-on-social (transitivity), ratings-on-social (selection), ratings-
on-rating (correlational inﬂuence).

(cid:15) We perform an experimental study on two real life data sets
(Epinions and Flickr), showing that the proposed model can
indeed produce realistic SRNs. To compare different gener-
ative models we introduce several formal evaluation metrics.

(cid:15) Our experimental study provides interesting insights into the
factors that drive SRNs. For example, we ﬁnd that transitiv-
ity is much more important than selection in the creation of
social relations for both Epinions and Flickr.

The rest of the paper is organized as follows. We present our ob-
servations and analysis of the temporal dynamics of SRNs in sec-
tion 2. Based on our observations and analysis, we present a model
for the behavior of users and the evolution of SRNs in section 3.
Related work is discussed in section 4. Evaluation metrics and ex-
perimental results are presented in section 5. Section 6 concludes
the paper and presents some directions for future work.

2. ANALYZING THE TEMPORAL DYNAM-

ICS OF SRNS

To observe the behavior of users in an SRN and to analyze the
evolution of SRNs, we performed experimental studies on two real
life data sets: Epinions and Flickr. Epinions.com is an online re-
viewing website. In Epinions, two types of actions are provided:
users rating items with some rating values, and users creating social
relations to other users.In Flickr, we consider two types of actions:
users creating social relations to other users, and users adding pho-
tos to their favorite list. We consider adding a photo to favorites as
a binary rating action (with rating value 1).
We represent the data set as a sequence of actions A. Each action
can be either a rating action creating a rating or a social action cre-
ating a social relation. Every action a in A is also associated with
a timestamp. We order the actions with respect to their timestamps
and observe the behavior of users in chronological order.

For every action a, we observe and analyze the behavior of users

as follows (see ﬁgure 1):

(cid:15) Who is the user u performing the action? One of the existing
users or a new user joining the SRN and performing his ﬁrst
action.

(cid:15) What type of action is being performed? A rating action or a

social action?

(cid:15) If it is a social action, who is the target user v to whom the

social relation is being created?

– If transitivity is playing role in this action, then v should

be one of the friends of friends of u.

– Selection leads to select v among top similar users to

u.

– If unknown external effects are inﬂuencing this action,

then v could be any existing user.

– Finally, there is the possibility of v being a new user

just joining the SRN.

(cid:15) If it is a rating action, what item i is being rated and by what

value?

– If social inﬂuence is affecting the rating behavior of u
in this action, then i should be one the items rated by
friends of u. The value of the rating should also be
affected by ratings expressed by direct neighbors of u
on i.

– If correlational inﬂuence is affecting the behavior of u,
then i should be one of the items rated by top similar
users to u. The rating of u on i should also be inﬂu-
enced by the ratings of similar users on i.

WWW 2011 – Session: Temporal DynamicsMarch 28–April 1, 2011, Hyderabad, India528Figure 1: Illustration of different effects inﬂuencing the behavior of users in an action.

– If some unknown external effect is inﬂuencing the be-
havior of u in this action, then i could be any existing
item.

– It could be also the case that i is a new item which has

not been rated in the SRN before this action.

Note that the rating actions being affected by social inﬂuence, cor-
relational inﬂuence and unknown external effects may overlap. Also
the social actions inﬂuenced by transitivity, selection and unknown
external effects may overlap. We compute the similarity among
users using Pearson correlation [16] between their ratings. Similar
to the idea used in [3] to construct a similarity network, the number
of top similar users considered for each user u in rating actions is
the same as the number of direct neighbors of u in the social net-
1. For social actions of user u, the number of similar users
work, Nu
considered is the same as the number of users who are friends of
friends of u.

First we analyze the role of new users and items in the evolution
of SRNs. As shown in ﬁgure 1, the probability that an action is per-
formed by a new user is η. However this probability is not a ﬁxed
number. Figure 2(a) presents our observation on the percentage of
actions being performed by new users versus the total number of
users existing in Epinions and Flickr. As shown in this ﬁgure, for
both data sets η has a power law-like distribution over jNtj, where
Nt is the current set of existing users in the SRN at time t. At the
very beginning of SRN’s evolution, when there exists only a few
users, the probability of an action being performed by a new user is
very high, and this probability decreases very fast with the increase
in the number of existing users. As depicted in ﬁgure 2(a), a similar
behavior exists for the percentage of social actions in which a so-
cial relation is created to a new user, denoted by (cid:8)t;4. If the action
is a rating action, the percentage of rating actions in which a new
item is rated (denoted by (cid:8)r;4) also exhibits a power law-like dis-
tribution over the number of existing items for both Epinions and
Flickr, as shown in ﬁgure 2(b).
Our observations show that the percentage of social actions (ϕ)
over the total number of actions (denoted by jAtj) remains fairly
constant throughout the evolution of SRN for both Epinions and
Flickr.

1Since there could be users with no direct neighbor but with some
similar users, in our experiments, the number of similar users is set
to be at least K=10.

(a)

(b)

Figure 2: a) The distribution of η and (cid:8)t;4 versus the number
of existing users in Epinions and Flickr. η is the percentage of
actions that are performed by a new user. (cid:8)t;4 is the percentage
of social actions that are created to a new user. b) Evolution of
the percentage of ratings in which a new item is rated ((cid:8)r;4).

When a social relation is created by a user to some existing user,
it could be either inﬂuenced by transitivity or selection, or by some
unknown external effect. If unknown effects are playing a role, we
assume that the social relation is being created to an arbitrary user.
Our observations show that the percentage of social actions that
are inﬂuenced by transitivity or selection increases almost linearly
with growth of the number of social actions. We believe that in
the course of time more social relations and more ratings are being
expressed and hence users get more similar and also get to know
friends of their friends. These events may lead to a stronger inﬂu-
ence of similar users and direct neighbors on their behavior for cre-

WWW 2011 – Session: Temporal DynamicsMarch 28–April 1, 2011, Hyderabad, India529ating social relations. Figure 3(a) depicts the percentage of social
relations created to existing users that are not affected by transitiv-
ity or selection for different values of jN
uj for both data
∗
∗
sets, where N
u is the set
of top similar users for u. As shown in this ﬁgure, the more users
∗
become available in N
u, the less likely it becomes that a
social action can not be explained by the effect of transitivity or
selection. Again, the diagram resembles a power law distribution.

∗
u is the set of friends of friends of u and S

uj + jS
∗

∗
u and S

(a) ϕt;1

(b) ϕr;1

Figure 4: a) Relative strength of transitivity and selection for
Epinions and Flickr. Each diagram shows the percentage of so-
cial actions inﬂuenced by transitivity or selection that are solely
inﬂuenced by transitivity (denoted by ϕt;1) versus total num-
ber of social actions in a data set. b) Relative strength of social
inﬂuence and correlational inﬂuence for Epinions and Flickr.
The diagrams show the percentage of rating actions affected
by social or correlational inﬂuence that are solely inﬂuenced by
social inﬂuence (denoted by ϕr;1) versus total number of rating
actions.

by social inﬂuence versus the actions affected by correlational in-
ﬂuence. Figure 4(b) depicts the percentage of rating actions af-
fected by social or correlational inﬂuence that are solely inﬂuenced
by social inﬂuence (denoted by ϕr;1) versus total number of rating
actions for Epinions and Flickr. Again, similar to the case for social
actions, this percentage is fairly constant throughout the evolution
of the SRN in both Epinions and Flickr.

Our ﬁnal observation is the distribution of rating values through-
out the evolution of an SRN. Figure 5 depicts the evolution of the
percentage of each rating value in Epinions2. Interestingly, we ob-
serve that the relative frequency of the rating values are fairly con-
stant during the evolution of the SRN. The percentage of higher
rating values are larger than those of low rating values, demonstrat-
ing that users in Epinions tend to be very generous in their ratings.

3. MODELING THE TEMPORAL DYNAM-

ICS OF SRNS

In this section we exploit our observations and analysis to model
the temporal dynamics of social rating networks. To do so, we rep-
resent different effects inﬂuencing the behavior of users in a prob-
abilistic generative model.

A social rating network consists of a sequence of dated actions.
The proposed model is illustrated in ﬁgure 1. In the following, we

2Note that since the ratings in Flickr are binary only, this observa-
tion does not apply to the Flickr data set.

(a)

(b)

Figure 3: a) P(:(transitivity _ selection)): Percentage of social
actions that are not affected by transitivity or selection for dif-
ferent values of jN
uj in Epinions and Flickr. b) P(:(social
∗
_ correlational)): Percentage of rating actions that are not af-
fected by social or correlational inﬂuence for different values of
jINuj + jISuj in Epinions and Flickr.

uj+jS
∗

Similar behavior is observed for rating actions. The percentage
of rating actions that are affected by social or correlational inﬂu-
ence increases almost linearly with the growth of the number of
rating actions. Figure 3(b) depicts the percentage of rating actions
rating an existing item that are not affected by social or correla-
tional inﬂuence for different values of jINuj + jISuj for both data
sets, where INu denotes the set of items rated by friends of u and
ISu denotes the set of items rated by top similar users for u. Fig-
ures 3(a) and 3(b) show that the percentage of actions that can be
explained only by unknown effects decreases in a power law-like
distribution in both Epinions and Flickr.

Furthermore we analyze the percentage of social actions in which
a social relation is created to a friend of a friend versus the social
actions in which the social relation is created to a top similar user.
Surprisingly, this percentage remains fairly constant throughout the
evolution of the Epinions data set. Figure 4(a) shows the percent-
age of social actions inﬂuenced by transitivity or selection that are
solely inﬂuenced by transitivity (denoted by ϕt;1) versus the total
number of social actions for Epinions and Flickr. Note that social
actions inﬂuenced by transitivity may overlap the social actions in-
ﬂuenced by selection. As shown in this ﬁgure, transitivity plays
a more important role in creating social relations than selection in
both data sets.

The next observation is the percentage of ratings being affected

WWW 2011 – Session: Temporal DynamicsMarch 28–April 1, 2011, Hyderabad, India530ϕt;3 = power(jN

∗
u

j + jS

∗
u

j) = a3 (cid:2) (jN

∗
u

j + jS

∗
u

j (cid:0) b3)c3

(3)

where N

∗
u is the set of friends of friends of u and S

∗
u is the set of
∗
top similar users to u. Note that as mentioned before, S
u is deﬁned
uj. If we decide to create
in a way such that jS
∗
a social relation to an arbitrary existing user, we do so by assigning
higher probabilities to users to whom more social relations have
been created already. This is the same as in preferential attachment
models [15].

uj is the same as jN
∗

∑

Pe(vju, St) =

din(v) + ϵ3
w(din(w) + ϵ3)

(4)

In the above equation, din(v) is the in-degree of user v in the
social network and ϵ3 is a smoothing parameter. Pe(vju,St) is
the probability that u creates the social relation to v who is among
existing users.
With probability (1 (cid:0) (cid:8)t;4)(1 (cid:0) ϕt;3), the action creates a so-
cial relation to either a friend of a friend or a top similar user.
Based on our observations in ﬁgure 4(a), ϕt;1 is constant through-
out the evolution of the social rating network and can be learnt
as model parameters. Hence, in our model a social action creates
a social relation to a friend of a friend with probability (cid:8)t;1 =
(1 (cid:0) ϕt;4)(1 (cid:0) ϕt;3)ϕt;1 and to a top similar user with probability
(cid:8)t;2 = (1 (cid:0) ϕt;4)(1 (cid:0) ϕt;3)(1 (cid:0) ϕt;1).

If the social action is creating a social relation to a friend of a
friend, then the probability of a friend of friend v being selected
is proportional to the frequency of appearance of v in the set of
friends of friends of u:

ft(vju) + ϵ1

Pt(vju, St) =

w∈N∗

(ft(wju) + ϵ1)

(5)
where Pt(vju,St) is the probability of creating a social relation
from u to a friend of friend v when deciding to create the social
relation to a friend of friend. ft(vju) is the frequency of appear-
ances of v in the set of friends of friends of u and ϵ1 is a smoothing
parameter to be learnt.

u

Similarly, the probability of creating a social relation to a top

similar user v is modeled as follows:

Ps(vju, St) =

simu;v + ϵ2

w∈Su

(simu;w + ϵ2)

(6)

∑

∑

where ϵ2 is the smoothing parameter to be learnt for our model.
Ps(vju,St) is the probability that u creates a social relation to v
who is among his top similar users.

Next, we model rating actions. There are four alternative ways
to rate an item: rating a new item, rating an item rated by friends
(social inﬂuence), rating an item rated by similar users (correla-
tional inﬂuence), and rating a random existing item (unknown ef-
fect). With probability (cid:8)r;4 a new item is rated by action performer
u. As we observed in ﬁgure 2(b), this probability exhibits power
law behavior. So, we model it as follows:

(cid:8)r;4 = power(jItj) = a4 (cid:2) (jItj (cid:0) b4)c4

(7)

where It is the current set of existing items. To select the rating
value for this rating action, we apply the observation in ﬁgure 5 and
model the probability of each rating value r by µr, where µr is a
model parameter indicating the prior probability of rating value r.
With probability (cid:8)r;3 = (1(cid:0)(cid:8)r;4)ϕr;3, user u rates an arbitrary
existing item inﬂuenced by unknown external effects. These are the

Figure 5: Distribution of rating values throughout the evolu-
tion of social network in Epinions. Possible rating values are
integers in the range [1,5].

explain the details of the proposed model for the generative process
of performing an action.
In our model, ﬁrst the user to perform the action is selected. With
probability η this user is a new user. With probability 1 (cid:0) η one
of the existing users performs the action. η is not a ﬁxed value.
Inspired by our observation in ﬁgure 2(a), we assume a power law
function for η over the number of existing users as follows:

η = power(jNtj) = a1 (cid:2) (jNtj (cid:0) b1)c1

(1)

where Nt is the current number of existing users. Now we in-
troduce P (ujSt), the probability of user u performing the action.
St denotes the current state of the SRN which summarizes the ef-
fects of all actions performed up to now. If the model decides that
the next action is to be performed by a new user, then "selecting" a
user u is deterministic: the model simply generates a new user u to
perform the action. If it is decided that the next action is to be per-
formed by an existing user, then the probability of a particular user
u performing the action is proportional to the number of actions
already performed by u taking into account a smoothing parameter
ϵ0. This is similar to the "rich get richer" idea which is also the
base of preferential attachment [15][14].

Next, the type of the action being performed is decided: social
action or rating action. Based on the observations the probability of
creating a social relation is considered to be a constant parameter
ϕ.

If the action is a social action, then there are four alternatives
on how to create the social relation: creating a social relation to
a new user, to a friend of a friend (transitivity), to a similar user
(selection), or to a random existing user (unknown effect). With
probability (cid:8)t;4 the action will create a social relation to a new
user. According to our observations shown in ﬁgure 2(a), (cid:8)t;4 de-
creases with the increase of the number of existing users by a power
function. So, we model this probability as follows:

(cid:8)t;4 = power(jNtj) = a2 (cid:2) (jNtj (cid:0) b2)c2

(2)

With probability (cid:8)t;3 = (1 (cid:0) (cid:8)t;4)ϕt;3, the action creates a so-
cial relation to some random existing user inﬂuenced by unknown
external effects. These are the social actions that can not be ex-
plained by transitivity or selection. To model ϕt;3 we exploit the
observation shown in ﬁgure 3(a) and assign social actions that can
not be explained by transitivity or selection to unknown external
effects as follows:

WWW 2011 – Session: Temporal DynamicsMarch 28–April 1, 2011, Hyderabad, India531rating actions that can not be explained by social or correlational
inﬂuence. Similar to our model for social relations, we exploit the
observation shown in ﬁgure 3(b) to model ϕr;3 and assign all rating
actions that can not be explained by social or correlational inﬂuence
to unknown external effects as follows:

ϕr;3 = power(jINuj + jISuj) = a5 (cid:2) (jINuj + jISuj (cid:0) b5)c5

(8)

where INu is the set of items rated by direct neighbors of u and
ISu is the set of items rated by top similar users of u. In this case,
the probability of selecting an existing item i, Pe(iju,St), is mod-
eled to be proportional to the number of ratings already expressed
for i:

Pe(iju, St) =

∑
jIij + ϵ8
j (jIjj + ϵ8)

(9)

where Ii is the set of users who have rated i. The next step is
to decide the rating value for this action. For each rating value r,
we combine the prior probability µr with the percentage of existing
ratings for item i with value r:

Pe(rji, St) /

∑
fi(r) + ϵ9
r′ (fi(r′) + ϵ9)

+ µr

(10)

where fi(r) is the frequency of rating value r for item i and ϵ9 is
the smoothing parameter. Pe(rji,St) is the probability of assigning
rating value r to i if i is a random existing user.
With probability (cid:8)r;1 = (1(cid:0) (cid:8)r;4)(1(cid:0) ϕr;3)ϕr;1, the rating ac-
tion selects the item from one of the items rated by direct neighbors
of u. Based on our observations in ﬁgure 4(b), ϕr;1 remains fairly
constant throughout the evolution of the SRN, and can be learnt as
a model parameter. If an item already rated by direct neighbors is
being rated, then the probability of item i being rated is as follows:

Pt(iju, St) =

j∈INu

(ft(jju) + ϵ4)

(11)
where ft(iju) is the frequency of item i appearing in the set of
items rated by direct neighbors of u. To compute the probability
of rating the item by value r (denoted by Pt(rju, i,St)), we use
the prior knowledge of general probability of rating i by value r
combined with the distribution of rating values on i among direct
neighbors u as follows:

∑

ft(iju) + ϵ4

Pt(rju, i, St) /

+ Pe(rji, St)

(12)

∑
ft(rji, u) + ϵ5
r′ (ft(r′ji, u) + ϵ5)

In the above equation, Pe(rji,St) is the prior probability of rat-
ing item i by value r as deﬁned in equation 11. ft(rji, u) is the
frequency of rating value r for item i among ratings expressed by
friends of u for item i. It should be noted that since the ratings
are binary in Flickr, models for rating values (equations 11 and 13)
apply to Epinions only. In Flickr, all rating values are 1.
With probability (cid:8)r;1 = (1 (cid:0) (cid:8)r;4)(1 (cid:0) ϕr;3)(1 (cid:0) ϕr;1), the
rating action selects the item from one of the items rated by top
similar users to u. The process for rating an item in this case is
similar to the process of rating an item rated by direct neighbors of
u in the social network. Ps(iju,St) and Ps(rju, i,St) are deﬁned
in a way similar to the deﬁnition of Pt(iju,St) and Pt(rju, i,St).
3.1 Learning the model parameters

In this section, we present our approach to learn the parameters
of our model. As discussed above, parameters of our model include

10 smoothing parameters (ϵ0...ϵ9), 15 parameters for power law
functions (a1, b1, c1...a5, b5, c5), ϕ, and ϕt;1,ϕr;1. We denote the
set of all parameters by (cid:2).

We compute the likelihood of the ratings and social relations ob-
served in the data set under our model, and resort to maximum
likelihood (ML) estimation to learn the values of the model param-
eters. We consider the network generation from the very beginning,
and maximize the likelihood of the observed sequence of social and
rating actions.
From the start time to the end time T , we observe K actions
which transform the SRN from the state S0 to the state ST . St de-
notes the state of the SRN at time t which summarizes the effects of
all actions performed up to this time. Let A denote the sequence of
all actions performed between times 0 and T , in which the actions
are sorted according to their timestamps. We denote each action in
A by ak and its timestamp by tk, where k 2 [1..K]. Based on the
chain rule, the likelihood of the model is the product of the proba-
bilities of each individual action in A given the previous actions:

P (AjS0, (cid:2)) =

P (akjStk , (cid:2))

(13)

K∏

k=1

[
(cid:8)t;4gn(vjSt)+

For the two types of actions (social actions, rating actions), we
compute the likelihood of the action in a different way. The proba-
bility of selecting a user u, and performing a social action Tu;v to
create a social relation between user u and user v is:

P (Tu;vjSt, (cid:2)) = P (ujSt) (cid:2) ϕ (cid:2)
(1 (cid:0) (cid:8)t;4)ϕt;3Pe(vju, St) + (1 (cid:0) (cid:8)t;4)(1 (cid:0) ϕt;3)ϕt;1Pt(vju, St)
(14)

+ (1 (cid:0) (cid:8)t;4)(1 (cid:0) ϕt;3)ϕt;2Ps(vju, St)

]

where gn(vjSt) is an indicator of whether v is a new user. Like-
wise, the likelihood of an action Ru;i;r in which the user u gives
the rating r for item i is:

[
P (Ru;i;rjSt, (cid:2)) = P (ujSt) (cid:2) (1 (cid:0) ϕ)(cid:2)
(cid:8)r;4gn(ijSt)µr + (1 (cid:0) (cid:8)r;4)ϕr;3Pe(iju, St)Pe(rji, u, St)
]

+ (1 (cid:0) (cid:8)r;4)(1 (cid:0) ϕr;3)ϕr;1Pt(iju, St)Pt(rji, u, St)
+ (1 (cid:0) (cid:8)r;4)(1 (cid:0) ϕr;3)ϕr;2Ps(iju, St)Ps(rji, u, St)

(15)

where gn(ijSt) is an indicator of whether i is a new item. We
use expectation maximization (EM) to estimate the maximum like-
lihood model parameters.

4. RELATED WORK

There has been a lot of research on modeling the evolution of so-
cial networks [7][9] [10][13]. However, these works only model the
creation of social relations and do not consider attributes for nodes.
In the following, we review some recent works which address the
problem of modeling the evolution of social networks together with
node attributes.

[3] introduces a evolution model for social networks with user
activities. In the Wikipedia dataset used in their experiments, ac-
tivities are the editing of a certain Wikipedia article, and network
edges represent interaction, i.e. participation in the discussions on
another users’s proﬁle. The generative model of [3] considers only
two factors: social inﬂuence and selection.

WWW 2011 – Session: Temporal DynamicsMarch 28–April 1, 2011, Hyderabad, India532The co-evolution of social and afﬁliation networks has been ex-
plored by [18]. In this scenario, nodes are associated with group la-
bels. The proposed model creates edges and group labels. For each
user, groups to join are selected from those of his friends (social
inﬂuence), and new friends are selected from his friends of friends
(transitivity). However, the effects of selection and correlational
inﬂuence are not modeled.

Like our work, [11] investigates social networks with user rat-
ings. Similar to our work the bidirectional effects between trust
and ratings are explored, but only selection and correlational inﬂu-
ence are considered. The effect of social relations on the behavior
of users is not discussed in this paper.

Evaluating generative models and the ﬁt of synthetic networks
with actual networks is an important issue in designing models for
the evolution of social networks. In the following we review two
recent works which investigate evaluation metrics for generative
models.

[1] addresses the problem of distinguishing social inﬂuence (cau-
sation) from correlation. A shufﬂe test is proposed based on the in-
tuition that if social inﬂuence is not a likely source of correlation in
a system, timing of actions should not matter, and therefore reshuf-
ﬂing the time stamps of the actions should not signiﬁcantly change
the amount of correlation. They also deﬁne a metric for measuring
social correlation. If the social correlation measure does not change
after shufﬂing, then social inﬂuence is ruled out as a cause of social
correlation.

The authors of [8] present a systematic examination of a real net-
work dataset using maximum likelihood estimation for exponential
random graph models as well as new procedures to evaluate how
well the models ﬁt the observed networks. These procedures com-
pare structural statistics of the observed network with the corre-
sponding statistics on networks simulated from the learnt model[8].
All metrics in this paper measure some structural property of social
networks. Attributes of nodes are not considered.

The microscopic evolution of social networks is investigated in
[10]. The authors argue that using the likelihood is a more ob-
jective measure for comparing alternative generative models than
using some of the many potential relevant network statistics. Only
simple social networks without attributes and only the inﬂuence of
transitivity are considered. The timing of the creation of nodes and
edges is also modeled, which is beyond the scope of our work.

5. EXPERIMENTS

In this section we present our experiments and discuss the re-
sults. To evaluate the performance of our model, we build a gener-
ative model for each data set, learning the parameters using maxi-
mum likelihood and expectation maximization.

We used the version of the Epinions data set3 published by the
authors of [17]. The data set contains 22K users, 30K items, 108K
ratings, and 117K social relations between users. The timestamps
in the data set range from 2001/01/17 to 2002/02/01. Flickr.com
is an online photo sharing website. We used the version of the
Flickr data set4 published by authors of [2]. The Flick data set used
in this paper contains 150K social relations and 30K rating actions
expressed by 5.2K users on 5K items. The timestamops in the ﬂickr
data set are from 2206/11/02 to 2007/03/15.

In our experiments, we compare the model proposed in section 4,
called the FullModel, against the following models which capture
only some of the effects:

3http://alchemy.cs.washington.edu/data/epinions/
4http://socialnetworks.mpi-sws.org/

(cid:15) CrossModel. This model considers only the effect of ratings
on social relations (selection), and the effect of social rela-
tions on ratings (social inﬂuence). This model is similar to
[3], and is derived by removing the parameters (cid:8)r;2 and (cid:8)t;1
from the FullModel (or setting these parameters to zero in
the FullModel). It should be noted that this model considers
social inﬂuence and social selection to be constant.

(cid:15) SocialOnly. It ignores the effects of similarities, i.e. it just
models the effects of social inﬂuence and transitivity. This
model is derived by removing parameters (cid:8)r;2 and (cid:8)t;2, from
the FullModel. This setting simulates the model proposed by
[18] in our framework. It should be noted that the model in
[18] ignores the dynamic nature of effects.

(cid:15) SimilarityOnly. It ignores the effects of social relations and
just models selection and correlational inﬂuence. This model
is derived by removing the parameters (cid:8)r;1, (cid:8)t;1 from the
FullModel. Results of this model show whether considering
only effects of similarity and correlation of rating patterns
can capture the behavior of real data.

(cid:15) Baseline. In this setting, we ignore all four bidirectional ef-
fects of social relations and rating patterns. This model is de-
rived by removing the parameters (cid:8)r;1, (cid:8)t;1, (cid:8)r;2 and (cid:8)t;2
from the FullModel and is designed to investigate the power
of randomness in SRN generation. This model is close to the
preferential attachment model[15].

5.1 Experimental Results

In this section, we present our experimental results with respect
to different evaluation metrics. It should be noted that we generate
10 SRNs using each model and take the average of each evaluation
metric over these 10 generated SRNs. Each generated SRN consists
of the same number of actions as the real data.

After learning the parameters, some interesting insights can be
gained on the behavior of users in Epinions and Flickr. The es-
timated value of ϕ is 0.52 for Epinions and 0.83 for Flickr. This
indicates that in the Flickr data set, users tend to create more social
relations compared to adding photos to their favorites list. The es-
timated value of ϕt;1 is 0.91 for Epinions and 0.9 for Flickr which
means that the effect of transitivity is much more important than
selection in both data sets. In other words, ignoring the effect of
friends of friends on the creation of social relations (as done in [3])
is not realistic. For rating actions, we have ϕr;1 = 0.59 for Epin-
ions and ϕr;1 = 0.54 for Flickr which shows that the strength of
social inﬂuence is close to the strength of correlational inﬂuence
with social inﬂuence being a little stronger in both data sets. In
the following subsections we evaluate comparison partners against
several evaluation metrics.
5.1.1 Comparing the likelihoods
As discussed in [10], using the likelihood of the real data is an
objective measure for comparing alternative models. Table 1 lists
the log-likelihood of Epinions and Flickr for all of the comparison
partners. The FullModel achieves the clearly highest log-likelihood
in both data sets, while the Baseline model, that ignores all four
bidirectional effects, achieves the lowest likelihood.
5.1.2 Evaluation of structural properties
As proposed in [8], we evaluate a generative model for social rat-
ing networks based on some structural properties of the generated
graph. We compare the following measures of the generated SRN
with those of the real SRN datasets in both Epinions and Flickr.

WWW 2011 – Session: Temporal DynamicsMarch 28–April 1, 2011, Hyderabad, India533Log-Likelihood
Flickr

Model

FullModel
CrossModel
SocialOnly
SimilarOnly

Baseline

Epinions
-2.914E6
-2.994E6
-2.977E6
-3.031E6
-3.122E6

-2.732E6
-2.791E6
-2.764E6
-2.807E6
-2.829E6

Table 1: Comparison of the log-likelihood of the Epinions data
set and the Flickr data set using alternative models.

(cid:15) Link Degree Distribution: The distribution of the out-degree

of nodes.

(cid:15) User Rating Degree Distribution: The rating degree of a user

is the number of items rated by him.

(cid:15) Item Rating Degree distribution: The rating degree of an item

is the number of users who have rated the item.

Our experiments show that all the above distributions follow a power
law. For each model, we compute the scaling exponent5 of each
distribution and compare it to the corresponding scaling exponent
in the real dataset. Table 2 compares the scaling exponent of dif-
ferent degree distributions for both Epinions and Flickr. Note that
the scaling exponents for all models are very close. We believe this
is mainly due to the fact that all models exploit the idea of "rich
get richer". Thus all the comparison partners are generating SRNs
close to the real data in terms of degree distributions.

Structural Measure

Link Degree

User Rating Degree
Item Rating Degree

Epinions

Flickr

Model
2.164
1.904
2.68

Real Model
1.368
2.132
1.665
1.901
2.76
1.998

Real
1.382
1.718
1.969

Table 2: Comparison of the scaling exponent of each degree
distribution of the SRN created by FullModel and the real data
for both Epinions and Flickr.

Another metric we use is the effective diameter [15] of the social
network. All comparison partners generate social networks with
effective diameter of 6 in Epinions and 4.8 in Flickr, which are the
same as the effective diameters of the real data set.

To conclude, evaluation on general structural properties showed
that all models generate SRNs that are generally similar to the real
data set.
5.1.3 Evaluation of social inﬂuence
We use an inﬂuence model proposed in [1] to compare the degree
of inﬂuence in SRNs generated by the various models and the real
data set.

At each timestamp t, each user u is exposed to some items. A
user u is k-exposed to an item i at time t if that individual has not
rated item i and has exactly k (cid:21) 1 direct neighbors who have rated
i by time t and the latest rating of i among the direct neighbors of u
is in the interval [t(cid:0)δ0,t]. Each item i is exposed to u at timestamp
t by au;i;t users. The probability P (u, i, t) of user u rating item i
in a time window of size δ after t is modeled as follows:

P (u, i, t) =

e(cid:11) ln (au;i;t+1)+(cid:12)

1 + e(cid:11) ln (au;i;t+1)+(cid:12)

(16)

5http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Power_law

Let Au;t denote the set of items user u has not yet rated but is
exposed to at time t. Then we can compute the likelihood of the
given data D as follows:

∏

∏

∏

P (D) =

t

u

i∈Au;t

P (u, i, t)Yu;i;t (1 (cid:0) P (u, i, t))1−Yu;i;t

(17)

where Yu;i;t is a boolean random variable with a value 1 if user

u rates item i in the time window [t,t+δ]6.

By maximizing the above likelihood we estimate the values of α
and β. As discussed in [1], the coefﬁcient α is considered as the
measure of inﬂuence by the neighbors for selecting an item to rate:

ln(

P (u, i, t)
1 (cid:0) P (u, i, t)

) = α ln (au;i;t) + β

We call this inﬂuence coefﬁcient the item adoption inﬂuence
since only the event of rating an item (but not the value of the
rating) is taken into account. We can also model the probability
P (u, i, t) of user u rating item i within distance 0.5 of the average
of ratings of his neighbors on i. We call this inﬂuence coefﬁcient
the rating adoption inﬂuence. The social inﬂuence measures for
different models and the real data set are presented in table 3. Note
that since ratings in Flickr have binary values, rating adoption inﬂu-
ence is not applicable to Flickr. As shown in this table, FullModel
has the social inﬂuence measures that are closest among all com-
parison partners to those of the real data set in both Epinions and
Flickr. Surprisingly, the SimilarityOnly model that uses only the ef-
fect of similar users comes fairly close to the real data set in terms
of social inﬂuence coefﬁcients in both data sets. All other mod-
els exhibit social inﬂuence coefﬁcients that are much smaller than
in the real data set. These results show that correlational inﬂuence
play a very important role in rating behavior of users and neglecting
it is not realistic.

Model

Real Data
FullModel
CrossModel
SocialOnly

SimilarityOnly

Baseline

item
adoption
inﬂuence
2.1436
2.186
1.170
0.966
1.951
0.687

Epinions

rating
adoption
inﬂuence
2.195
2.252
1.314
1.079
2.008
0.820

Flickr
item
adoption
inﬂuence
1.41
1.32
1.14
1.21
1.56
0.74

Table 3: Inﬂuence coefﬁcients for item and rating adoption in
the social rating network generated by different models and the
real data set in Epinions and Flickr.

5.1.4 Measuring the effect of social relations on the

growth of similarity of rating patterns

When user u creates a social relation to user v, then according
to social inﬂuence, u will consider ratings of v in his future ac-
tions. Thus, the similarity of ratings of users u and v should grow

6For the sake of efﬁciency, we consider only 12 timestamps in
our experiment to compute the exposures in Epinions (2001/02/17,
2001/03/17, ... 2002/01/17). δ and δ0 are set to 30 days in our
experiments with Epinions. In Flickr, we consider 8 timestamps
(2006/02/15, 2006/03/01, ..., 2007/03/01). δ and δ0 are set to 15
days

WWW 2011 – Session: Temporal DynamicsMarch 28–April 1, 2011, Hyderabad, India534after creation of the social relation. The more actions they do, the
more similar they are supposed to get. The difference between the
similarity of u and v at the end of the evolution of the SRN and at
the moment of creating the social relation is called the similarity
growth for users u and v. In our SRN, users may perform different
numbers of actions after creating a social relation. We group pairs
of users (u, v) based on the number of rating actions u performs
after creating the social relation to v. Figure 6 shows the similarity

5.1.5 Measuring the transitivity inﬂuence
Transitivity of social relations is an important property which
affects the creation of social relations between users. The distribu-
tion of the shortest distance between users u and v, at the moment
when u creates a social relation to v, can measure the transitivity
effect. If the probability of short distances (i.e. 2) is high, then
the transitivity has been an inﬂuential factor in trust creation. We
compute the average shortest distance of pairs of users at the mo-
ment of creating a social relation between these two users. Table

Figure 6: Comparison of Similarity Growth after creation of
social relation for different models in Epinions.

growth versus the number of actions for the different models on the
Epinions data set. The FullModel follows the pattern of similar-
ity growth in the real data more closely than other models. There
are some interesting and surprising results in Figure 6. The Simi-
larOnly and CrossModel tend to have higher growth of similarity
compared to the real data, while SocialOnly tends to have a lower
growth of similarity compared to both real data and FullModel.
SimilarOnly and CrossModel use selection for link creation, but
SocialOnly uses the transitivity for link creation. The similarity
growth versus the number of actions for the different models in
the Flickr data set is depicted in ﬁgure 7. Again FullModel has the
closest pattern of similarity growth to that of the real data. In a way,
the results show that users who are already similar before creating
a social relation, tend to get more similar compared to users who
are not that similar when creating the social relation. FullModel is
a tradeoff between these two cases and our experiments show that
it behaves much more similar to the real data.

Figure 7: Comparison of Similarity Growth after creation of
social relation for different models in Flickr.

Model

Real Data
FullModel
CrossModel
SocialOnly
SimilarOnly

Baseline

dmin

Epinions

3.93
4.05
5.59
3.24
5.59
5.21

Flickr
2.73
2.86
3.636
2.68
3.64
4.76

Table 4: Average shortest distance of user pair at the moment
of creating social relations (dmin) in different models and the
real data set for Epinions and Flickr.

4 compares the average shortest distance of user pairs at the mo-
ment of creating social relations (dmin) in different models and the
real data set for both Epinions and Flickr. Note that pairs of users
who are not reachable at the time of the creation of a social rela-
tion are considered to have distance 7. As shown in this table, the
average shortest distance for FullModel is the closest one to that
of the real data set. SocialOnly achieves lower average distance
since it only relies on neighbors and does not consider the selection
effect. CrossModel, SimilarityOnly, and Baseline have a higher av-
erage shortest distance, likely because they are ignoring transitivity
which according to our experiments is a very important factor in
the creation of social relations.
5.1.6 Measuring the effect of selection
To evaluate the effect of selection, we compute the average sim-
ilarity of users when creating a social relation. Table 5 presents the
average similarity of user pairs at the moment of creating social re-
lations for different models and for the real data in both Epinions
and Flickr. In this table, we only consider the pairs of users for
which we can compute the similarity. Table 5 also shows the per-
centage of user pairs for which we can compute the similarity in
each comparison partner. Again, FullModel is clearly the closest
to the real data set in both Flickr and Epinions. CrossModel and
SimilarOnly have higher average similarity since they only rely on
similar users for creating social relations and ignore the transitiv-
ity effect. The SocialOnly model, however, also has an average
similarity close to that of the real data set. This seems to be due
to the fact that strength of selection in Epinions and Flickr is very
low compared to transitivity. The FullModel is also closest to the
real data set in terms of the percentage of user pairs creating social
relation for which we can compute the similarity.

6. CONCLUSION

Social rating networks (SRN) are becoming more and more im-
portant in reviewing websites such as Epinions.com or online shar-
ing websites like Flickr.com. In this paper we analyzed and mod-
eled the temporal behavior of users in an SRN using bidirectional
effects of rating patterns and social relationships. Our model is
based on our observations of the behavior of user while express-

WWW 2011 – Session: Temporal DynamicsMarch 28–April 1, 2011, Hyderabad, India535Model

Real Data
FullModel
CrossModel
SocialOnly
SimilarOnly

Baseline

Epinions

Average
Similar-
ity
0.381
0.375
0.524
0.365
0.558
0.253

% of non-
zero simi-
larity pairs
3.07
3.21
11.78
2.01
12.03
2.40

Average
Similar-
ity
0.618
0.627
0.703
0.716
0.681
0.728

Flickr

% of non-
zero simi-
larity pairs
6.2
5.4
16.8
4.3
15.7
5.09

Table 5: Average similarity of user pairs at the moment of cre-
ating social relations in different models and the real data set
for both Epinions and Flickr.

ing ratings or creating social relations. While existing models for
other types of social networks have captured some of the factors,
our model is the ﬁrst one to represent all four factors, i.e. social
relations-on-ratings (social inﬂuence), social relations-on-social re-
lations (transitivity), ratings-on-social relations (selection), and ratings-
on-ratings (correlational inﬂuence).

Base on our observations, these effects are dynamic. In other
words, the strength of each effect is not constant throughout the
evolution of an SRN. We analyzed and modeled the temporal dy-
namism of these effects by deﬁning them to be functions of the
dynamic features of an evolving SRN.

Given the sensitive nature of social network data, there are only
very few public SRN datasets. This motivates the development of a
model to capture the temporal dynamics of users’ behaviors and to
create such synthetic datasets for research purposes. To evaluate the
accuracy of our model, we compared the synthetic SRN generated
by our model with the real data and with SRN generated by other
models that have been proposed in the literature.

Our experimental study on the Epinions dataset and the Flickr
dataset demonstrated that the proposed model produces social rat-
ing networks that agree with real world data on a comprehensive
set of evaluation criteria much better than existing models. These
criteria included the relevant degree distributions and measures of
the four major inﬂuence factors that we identiﬁed for social rating
networks. In addition, our experimental study provided interesting
insights into the factors driving the evolution of SRNs. In particu-
lar, we found that transitivity plays a much bigger role in the cre-
ation of social relations than selection, although the most closely
related generative model [3] does not even consider transitivity.

We would like to mention a few directions for future research.
As most existing generative graph models, we adopt a discrete time
concept. However, a continuous time concept and a corresponding
model of the inter-action times, similar to that proposed in [10] and
[18], may further improve the faithfulness of the generated data.
Furthermore, the use for inference purposes, e.g. for link predic-
tion, is one of the motivating applications of generative models and
should be explored.

7. REFERENCES
[1] A. Anagnostopoulos, R. Kumar, and M. Mahdian. Inﬂuence

and correlatino in social networks. In KDD 2008.

[2] M. Cha, A. Mislove, and K. P. Gummadi. A

measurement-driven analysis of information propagation in
the ﬂickr social network. In Proceedings of the 18th Annual
World Wide Web Conference (WWW’09), Madrid, Spain,
April 2009.

[3] D. Crandall, D. Cosley, D. Huttenlocher, J. Kleinberg, and

S. Suri. Feedback effects between similarity and social
inﬂuence in online communities. In KDD 2008.

[4] N. E. Friedkin. A Structural Theory of Social Inﬂuence.

Cambridge University Press, 1998.

[5] D. Goldberg, D. Nichols, B. M. Oki, and D. Terry. Using
collaborative ﬁltering to weave an information tapestry.
Communications of the ACM, 35(12), 1992.

[6] P. Holland and S. Leinhardt. Some evidence on the

transitivity of positive interpersonal sentiment. American
Journal of Sociology, pages 1205–1209, 1972.

[7] P. Holme and M. Newman. Nonequilibrium phase transition

in the coevolution of networks and opinions. Physical
Review E, 74:056108, 2006.

[8] D. R. Hunter, S. M. Goodreau, and M. S. Handcock.

Goodness of ﬁt of social network models. Journal of the
American Statistical Association, 103(481), 2008.

[9] R. Kumar, J. Novak, and A. Tomkins. Structure and
evolution of online social networks. In KDD 2006.

[10] J. Leskovec, L. Backstrom, R. Kumar, and A. Tomkins.
Microscopic evolution of social networks. In KDD 2008.

[11] Y. Matsuo and H. Yamamoto. Community gravity:

measuring bidirectional effects by trust and rating on online
social networks. In WWW 2009.

[12] M. Mcpherson, L. S. Lovin, and J. M. Cook. Birds of a

feather: Homophily in social networks. Annual Review of
Sociology, 27(1):415–444, 2001.

[13] A. Mislove, M. Marcon, K. P. Gummadi, P. Druschel, and

B. Bhattacharjee. Measurement and analysis of online social
networks. In IMC ’07: Proceedings of the 7th ACM
SIGCOMM conference on Internet measurement, 2007.
[14] M. Newman. Power laws, pareto distributions and zipfŠs

law. Contemporary Physics, 46(5):323–351, 2005.

[15] M. Newman, A.-L. Barabási, and D. J. Watts. The Structure

and Dynamics of Networks. Princeton University Press,
2006.

[16] P. Resnick, N. Iacovou, M. Suchak, P. Bergstrom, and

J. Riedl. Grouplens: an open architecture for collaborative
ﬁltering of netnews. In CSCW ’94: ACM conference on
Computer supported cooperative work, 1994.

[17] M. Richardson and P. Domingos. Mining knowledge-sharing

sites for viral marketing. In KDD 2002.

[18] E. Zheleva, H. Sharara, and L. Getoor. Co-evolution of social

and afﬁliation networks. In KDD 2009.

WWW 2011 – Session: Temporal DynamicsMarch 28–April 1, 2011, Hyderabad, India536