Generation, Documentation and Presentation  

of Mathematical Equations and Symbolic Scientific 

Expressions Using Pure HTML and CSS 
 
 

Kehinde Alabi, Ph.D 
SUNY at Stony Brook 
110 Friendship Drive 
Rocky Point, NY 11778 

(001) 6314840778 

Kenny@tutorcentral.net 

 

ABSTRACT 
This  paper  describes  a  comprehensive  method  for  presenting 
mathematical  equations  and  expressions  using  only  pure  HTML 
and CSS. This method renders the equations portable and editable 
and contrasts with previous procedures that represent equations as 
whole graphic objects. Methods for generating and documenting 
the equations using HTML and JavaScript are also described such 
that  the  equations  can  be  interpreted  and  converted  to  or  from 
other formats such as LaTex, MATHML, or linear representation. 
Categories and Subject Descriptors 
I.1.7 [Document and Text Processing]: Document Preparation – 
Photocomposition/Typesetting,  Hypertext/Hypermedia,  Format 
and  Notation,  Markup  Languages.  J.2  [Physical  Sciences  and 
Engineering]:  Mathematics  and  Statistics,  Engineering.  I.1.1 
[Symbolic and Algebraic Manipulation]: Expressions and their 
Representations – Representations. 
General Terms: Documentation, Standardization, Languages, 
Human Factors. 
Keywords: HTML, CSS, MATHML, Mathematical Equations, 
Symbolic Scientific Expressions. 
1.0 INTRODUCTION 
In  spite  of  the  success  of  HTML  as  a  pervasive  format  for 
document  storage  and  presentation,  when  it  comes  to  scientific 
and mathematical content, HTML is hardly yet a dominant format 
for document presentation. In fact, much scientific documents are 
processed  and  presented  in  LaTex  [1],  pdf,  or  other  Word 
processing  format.  This  is  due  to  the  difficulty  associated  with 
generating  scientific  expressions  and  mathematical  notations  in 
HTML.  Current  procedures  include  generating  the  equations  as 
graphic  files  embedded  within  the  HTML  page  [2],  use  of  java 
applets,  and  more  recently  use  of  MATHML  [3].  The  first  two 
methods  suffer  from  additional  download  times  required  for  the 
relatively  larger  graphics  or  applets. Also, equations once set in 
graphic  form  are  difficult  or  almost  impossible  to  edit.  All 
methods  require  a  browser  plug-in,  an  embed,  or  additional 
software  to  present,  author  or  edit  the  equations.  The  current 
method  utilizes  advances  in  HTML  and  AJAX  technology  to 
devise  procedures 
to  generate  and  present  equations  and 
expressions in HTML and CSS using only the basic web browser. 
 
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s). 
WWW 2007, May 8–12, 2007, Banff, Alberta, Canada. 
ACM 978-1-59593-654-7/07/0005. 

2.0 Generating Built-up Expressions 
The elements of an HTML equation in the current method consist 
of symbols and operators. Symbols may include fonts and small 
bits  of  graphics  representing  symbols  and  may  also  include 
UNICODE  symbols  where  supported  by  the  browser[4,5].  The 
symbols  and  operators  have  appearance  that  is  distinct  from 
ordinary  text  in  an  HTML  presentation  [6].  This  requirement  is 
effected by applying appropriate style (CSS) to the equation cell, 
row, or table. Style elements include text spacing and font style 
set 
for  mathematical 
expressions.  Built-up  portions  of  an  equation  include  elements 
such as fractions, subscripts, superscripts, matrices, and limiters. 
The  procedure  for  presenting  built-up  equation  elements  in 
HTML table cells are illustrated in figures 1 through 7. 

the  desired  appearance 

to  provide 

Figure 1. Representation of Fractions in HTML and CSS. 

 

 

Figure 2. Combined Subscript and Superscript. 

 

 

Figure 3. Representation of Variable-size Limiters.

 

 

Figure 4. Variable-size Horizontal Decorations.

WWW 2007 / Poster PaperTopic: User Interfaces and Accessibility1321icons that trigger programs to generate or modify an aspect of an 
HTML  equation.  Associated  with  the  click  of  the  icons  are 
JavaScript  programs  or 
is 
implemented  in  HTML,  the  entire  document  as  well  as  the 
equations may be directly edited as illustrated in Figure 9. 

instructions.  Since 

the  editor 

Figure 5. Representation of n-ary Operators. 

Drop-Down Menus
Drop-Down Menus

Edit in-place
Edit in-place

Menu Items
Menu Items

Figure 6. Representation of Matrices in HTML and CSS. 

Figure 9. Sample HTML Equation Editor in a Browser. 

 

Figure 7. Text and Conditional Expressions. 

Figure 7. Use of Text and Conditional Expressions.

Handling of spaces is easier in the current method than traditional 
methods of presenting equations. Spaces can be directly inserted 
as desired within expressions and within cells using the free-form 
ability  of  HTML.  Nesting  of  equation  elements  in  the  current 
procedure is also straightforward. Each cell in a built-up sequence 
is  essentially  an  equation  cell  in  its  own  right  and  can 
accommodate any of the built-up sequences illustrated above. 

(a)
(a)

(b)
(b)

Figure 8. Visual Qualitative Comparison of HTML 
Equations and Word-Processed Graphic Equations. 

 
Figure 8 shows a number of equations generated using the current 
method  compared  to  equations  presented  in  graphic  form  in 
desktop publishing software. The figure shows the ability of the 
HTML  form  to  render  equations  about  as  successfully  as  the 
graphic equivalent. 
3.0 Generating and Editing Equations 
The  HTML  generation  application  consists  of  a  sequence  of 
menus  that  can  be  activated  by  the  user.  Each  menu  contains 

4.0 Documenting HTML Equations 
Documentation  of  the  equation  is  accomplished  by  using  tags 
within  the  HTML  text.  Some  tag  names  used  with  parts  of  the 
equation include frac, matrix, numerator, subscript etc. Note the 
fact  that  some  of  the  names  are  derived  from  commands  in 
formats  such  as  LaTex  to  facilitate  the  easy  development  of 
converters to or from those formats. Further, the symbol images in 
an expression are given names that have a descriptive order. For 
instance, the image used for the symbol “±” (if image symbols are 
used  rather  than  Unicode  or  other  font  representation)  is 
math_pm.gif  (similar  to  \pm  used  in  LaTex).  Named  styles  are 
also descriptive. For instance, the text style is named math_text. 
Together,  the  entire  content  of  HTML  equations  may  be 
completely interpreted from the HTML text alone. 
5.0 Conclusion 
Comprehensive procedures for generating mathematical equations 
and symbolic scientific expressions in pure HTML and CSS are 
presented.  The  equations  are  stored  in  HTML  text  rather  than 
whole  graphics  rendering  them  easily  editable.  This  method 
potentially confers the same properties of portability and ease of 
exchange  and  presentation  on  scientific  material  as  for  other 
content  presented 
the  World  Wide  Web. 
Documentation of the equations was also described such that the 
equations  can  be  inter-converted  to  other  format  such  as  Latex. 
The  procedures  can  be  combined  with  MATHML  to  take 
advantage of additional documentation features in MATHML for 
non-browser presentation. 
6.0 REFERENCES 
[1]  Lamport, L. LaTeX: A Document Preparation System, Users Guide 

in  HTML  on 

and Reference Manual. Addison-Wesley, 2 (1994). 

[2]  Wegrzanowski, T. TexVC LateX to HTML Translator. 

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Texvc 

[3]  Mathematical Markup Language. http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML/. 
[4]  Hutchinson. TTH: a “TeX to HTML” Translator, Ver 3.43. 

http://hutchinson.belmont.ma.us/tth/manual/. 

[5]  Murray, S. Unicode Nearly Plain-Text Encoding of Mathematics, 

Unicode Technical Node. (April 2006).  

[6]  Alabi, K, “NetVIOS Editbox User Manual, (October 2006).

WWW 2007 / Poster PaperTopic: User Interfaces and Accessibility1322