Context-Based Page Unit Recommendation for Web-Based

Sensemaking Tasks

Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia

IBM T. J. Watson Research Center

Wen-Huang Cheng

National Taiwan University
Taipei 10617, Taiwan, R.O.C.

wisley@cmlab.csie.ntu.edu.tw

David Gotz

19 Skyline Drive

Hawthorne, New York 10532, USA

dgotz@us.ibm.com

ABSTRACT
Sensemaking tasks require users to perform complex research
behaviors to gather and comprehend information from many
sources. Such tasks are common and include, for example,
researching vacation destinations or deciding how to invest.
In this paper, we present an algorithm and interface that
provides context-based page unit recommendation to assist
in connection discovery during sensemaking tasks. We ex-
ploit the natural note-taking activity common to sensemak-
ing behavior as the basis for a task-speciﬁc context model.
Each web page visited by a user is dynamically analyzed
to determine the most relevant content fragments which are
then recommended to the user. Our initial evaluations indi-
cate that our approach improves user performance.
Categories and Subject Descriptors
H.3.3 [Information Systems]: Information Search and Re-
trieval; H.4.3 [Information Systems]: Communications
Applications—Information Browsers
General Terms
Algorithms, Design, Human Factors
Keywords
Recommendation, WWW, Search, Sensemaking
1.

INTRODUCTION

Over the past decade, improvements in search and re-
trieval technologies have made it extremely easy for peo-
ple to obtain an accurate list of web pages most relevant to
their tasks by typing a short set of keywords [1, 4]. How-
ever, studies show that as much as 75% of a web user’s time
is spent in a post-search phase [3] where they look through
an individual web pages or sites to ﬁnd the speciﬁc content
that is the target of their task.

A user’s post-search eﬀort to ﬁnd relevant information
within a web page is even more onerous during sensemaking
tasks. During such tasks, users perform complex research
behaviors to gather and comprehend information from many
sources to address open-ended questions, such as business
intelligence, or researching vacation destinations. In these
tasks, users often take notes to record discovered data for
later review and to help them discover connections between
information found at diﬀerent times.

Copyright is held by the author/owner(s).
WWW 2008, April 21–25, 2008, Beijing, China.
ACM 978-1-60558-085-2/08/04.

Figure 1: The InsightFinder is a browser sidebar
that contains two sections: a note-taking area, and
a dynamically computed ranked list of relevant page
units. Clicking on an item in the ranked list scrolls
the browser to the proper location and highlights
the corresponding page unit using a red box.

In our work, we exploit a user’s normal note taking behav-
ior to reduce the post-search burden which occupies so much
of a user’s time during sensemaking tasks. This approach is
inspired by related work that examined task-speciﬁc notes
to recommend previously saved material [2].

2. THE INSIGHTFINDER

The InsightFinder, as shown in Figure 1, is an extension to
the traditional browser interface that assists in connection
discovery during sensemaking tasks by providing dynamic
context-based page unit recommendations. The Insight-
Finder oﬀers two primary features. First, it allows users to
easily capture, organize, and revisit information they ﬁnd
while researching a particular topic within a notebook-like
sidebar. Second, and most novel, the captured information
is used as input to a context-based recommendation algo-
rithm that provides real-time recommendations of relevant
page units during the user’s future browsing activity.
2.1 Recording Notes

The InsightFinder allows users to record notes at several
levels of granularity (e.g.
individual links, images, or text
fragments from a web page) and provides tools for the cre-
ation, manipulation, and removal of captured information.
This is accomplished via a sidebar interface located next
to the traditional browser window. In the background, the
InsightFinder maintains a context model based on the struc-

1073WWW 2008 / Poster PaperApril 21-25, 2008 · Beijing, Chinature of the user’s notes which is used to provide task-relevant
recommendations.

When a user begins a new task, they create a new workspace

which provides a blank space to record new notes. The
workspace allows users to drag-and-drop information from
the browser into their notes as shown in Figure 2. Users
can drag text, images, links, complex combinations of these
types. Users can also record entire web pages by dragging
the location bar’s link icon to the InsightFinder. In addi-
tion to adding new information, users can manipulate and
organize existing objects within the InsightFinder to clarify
their overall notes as their task evolves. This includes tools
for folder creation and manipulation, as well as deleting,
moving, editing, and revisiting existing notes.

The InsightFinder provides more than basic note taking
capabilities. Users can save their notes and return to them
in future sessions. In addition, users can maintain unique
multi-session workspaces for each user task. This is espe-
cially critical because users often engage in several inter-
leaved sensemaking tasks over the course of several web
browsing sessions. Task-speciﬁc workspaces (e.g., one for
“Trip to New York” and another for “Investment Research”)
allow the InsightFinder to provide more accurate task-speciﬁc
page unit recommendations.

Underneath the graphical display of the user’s collection
of notes is a graph-based data structure, called the context
model. Each task t has its own model, Ct, that mirrors the
workspace’s visual presentation and augments it with addi-
tional information required for the page unit recommenda-
tion algorithm. Every change to a user’s notes is automati-
cally propagated to the underlying context graph.
2.2 Providing Recommendations

The InsightFinder is designed to dynamically recommend
the most task-relevant content on each web page visited by
a user. This is done by comparing the content on each vis-
ited page to the information stored in the user’s notes. The
results are presented visually to the user to reduce the time
spent searching through pages to ﬁnd relevant information.
The recommendation algorithm, expressed in Equation 1,
is re-evaluated every time a user navigates to a new web
page. The InsightFinder employs a structure-based algo-
rithm to segment each page Pi into a set of individual page
units, pi,k, with the goal of creating units that contain se-
mantically consistent data (i.e., the content within a single
page unit should share a common topic).

~pi,k = Rank(Segment(Pi), Ct)

(1)

A relevance algorithm, Rank, then compares the informa-
tion stored in the active context model Ct with the content
of each of the page units extracted from the browser’s cur-
rent page, P . The Rank algorithm returns a vector of page
units ranked by each one’s computed degree of relevance to
Ct. Our prototype uses a bag-of-works representation for
page units and objects in Ct, and employs traditional text-
oriented measures (e.g., the Jaccard coeﬃcient and point-
wise mutual information) within the Rank algorithm.

The most relevant page units in ~pi,k are recommended
to the user through the InsightFinder’s sidebar. The lower
portion of the interface presents a sorted histogram provid-
ing an intuitive display of the degree of relevance for each
of the recommended units. This interface is shown in Fig-
ure 3(a). A user’s click on any item in the list causes the

Figure 2: Users record notes by dragging content
fragments (links, images, text, or entire pages) from
the browser to folders in the InsightFinder.

(a)

(b)

Figure 3: (a) The InsightFinder’s recommendations
are presented as a ranked list. A histogram is in-
cluded to visually indicate the relative value of each
unit’s relevance to the context model. (b) Clicking
on any item in the list automatically scrolls the web
page and highlights the page unit in a red rectangle.

browser to automatically scroll to display the selected page
unit. In addition, as shown in Figure 3(b), the selected unit
is highlighted within a red box to clearly indicate where the
recommended content can be found.

Relevance computation is an important part of the Insight-
Finder’s ability to support sensemaking tasks. It helps users
“connect the dots” by highlighting potentially relevant con-
nections between their notes and the information currently
on display within their browser. This feature can prove
especially useful in quickly uncovering either intended or
serendipitous connections which a user would otherwise over-
look or obtain only by tediously analyzing the entire page.

3. EVALUATION

While the InsightFinder is only an early prototype, our
initial evaluations show that it is eﬀective in reducing the
time required to locate relevant information within a web
page. In laboratory experiments, we asked 10 users to per-
form four information location tasks using the Firefox browser.
In all four tasks, users with access to the InsightFinder ex-
hibited a statistically signiﬁcant reduction (p < 0.01) in the
time required to perform their task. These early results mo-
tivate our continuing work in this direction.

4. REFERENCES
[1] S. Brin and L. Page. The anatomy of a large-scale

hypertextual web search engine. In Proc. of Inter. WWW
Conf., 1998.

[2] D. Gotz. The scratchpad: Sensemaking support for the web.

In Proc. of the Inter. WWW Conf. Posters, 2007.

[3] A. W. Lazonder, H. J. A. Biemans, and I. G. J. H. Wopereis.

Diﬀerences between novice and experienced users in
searching information on the world wide web. Jrnl of the
American Society for Info. Sci., 51:576–581, 2000.

[4] M. Marchiori. The quest for correct information on the web:
Hyper search engines. In Proc. of Inter. WWW Conf., 1997.

1074WWW 2008 / Poster PaperApril 21-25, 2008 · Beijing, China