Adaptive Faceted Browser for Navigation

in Open Information Spaces

Michal Tvarožek

Institute of Informatics and Software Engineering

Faculty of Informatics and Information

Technologies, Slovak University of Technology

Ilkoviˇcova 3, 842 16 Bratislava, Slovakia

tvarozek@ﬁit.stuba.sk

Mária Bieliková

Institute of Informatics and Software Engineering

Faculty of Informatics and Information

Technologies, Slovak University of Technology

Ilkoviˇcova 3, 842 16 Bratislava, Slovakia

bielik@ﬁit.stuba.sk

ABSTRACT
Open information spaces have several unique characteristics
such as their changeability, large size, complexity and di-
verse user base. These result in novel challenges during user
navigation, information retrieval and data visualization in
open information spaces. We propose a method of navi-
gation in open information spaces based on an enhanced
faceted browser with support for dynamic facet generation
and adaptation based on user characteristics.
Categories and Subject Descriptors: H.3.3 [Informa-
tion Systems]: Information Search and Retrieval; H.5.4 [In-
formation Systems]: Hypertext/ Hypermedia—Navigation
General Terms: Algorithms, Design, Experimentation
Keywords: Open information space, navigation, adaptive
faceted browser

1.

INTRODUCTION

Present information systems increasingly need to work
with open information spaces which have several distinguish-
ing properties. These include:

• Changeability – open information spaces change much
more often than closed information spaces by their
very nature.

• Size – while diﬀerently sized open information spaces
can be found, they usually tend to grow fast and thus
usually are relatively large.

• Complexity – varying degrees of complexity are com-
mon ranging from relatively simple to very complex
information spaces.

• User diversity – open information spaces can often

have very diverse user bases.

One of the proposed approaches for dealing with large
complex information spaces originated in library sciences
and is based on the use of a faceted classiﬁcation scheme
and its use in faceted browsers. These employ a faceted
navigation model by means of an active user interface that
allows users to select the desired subspace of the original
space by selecting restrictions in one or more facets [2].

Copyright is held by the author/owner(s).
WWW 2007, May 8–12, 2007, Banff, Alberta, Canada.
ACM 978-1-59593-654-7/07/0005.

Semantic web technologies such as ontologies and seman-
tic search appear to be promising directions of further re-
search. In [1] the authors describe two semantic search sys-
tems and outline how the semantics of search terms can
be used for improving search results. Furthermore, in [3]
the authors assume an ontological representation of domain
model and employ automated user modeling. They propose
user adaptation of faceted browsers as a solution for some
of the disadvantages of using faceted classiﬁcations as well
as to improve user orientation in large information spaces.
While all the aforementioned approaches can be used with
open information spaces they do not provide satisfactory
support for their changeability as they rely on static appli-
cation domain and/or conﬁguration data.

2. ADAPTIVE FACETED NAVIGATION

We propose the enhancement of (adaptive) faceted browsers
with support for dynamic facet generation based on data
stored in the domain and user ontologies. Thus we ex-
tend the existing adaptation stage of the facets in a faceted
browser with an additional stage for facet generation at run-
time on a per user basis.
2.1 Dynamic facet generation

During facet generation we examine the attributes of the
desired instances within the information space as deﬁned by
the respective domain ontology. For example, in the domain
of job oﬀers, we examine attributes of the domain concept
JobOﬀer and its associate concepts, e.g. Organization de-
noting organizations oﬀering positions. Next, we select eligi-
ble candidates from the relevant attributes of instances and
construct facet descriptions based on metadata from the do-
main ontology. Lastly, we determine a suitable presentation
method for each new facet and forward the resulting set of
new facets to the following facet adaptation stage.

The selection of suitable candidate attributes for facet
generation ﬁrst evaluates the attributes of the target in-
stance type (i.e. direct attributes), e.g. JobOﬀer and next
the attributes of associated types (i.e.
indirect attributes),
e.g. Organization. Since it is not desirable to generate all
possible facets due to the their large number, eﬃcient at-
tribute selection is crucial in order to select the most suit-
able attributes. We evaluate the aggregate suitability of
individual attributes based on:

• Current user behavior – the user’s navigation and cur-
if a restriction on

rent selection of facets. Thus e.g.

WWW 2007 / Poster PaperTopic: User Interfaces and Accessibility1311the industry sector is selected, additional facets asso-
ciated with Organization are likely to be generated in
order to allow the user to further reﬁne her query.

• Attribute relevance – if the relevance of an attribute in
the user model is high it is likely to be used for facet
generation.

• Global attribute relevance and facet usage data – the
overall “popularity” of facets and attributes for users
increases the likelihood of a facet being generated for a
speciﬁc user. Based on identiﬁed user groups/clusters,
the preferences of similar users have higher weights.

Since dynamically generated facets are created from either
direct or indirect attributes of instances, they are presented
diﬀerently. Figure 1 illustrates proposed types of facets.

• Direct facets – top-level facets based on direct attributes
of the target instances (job oﬀers), e.g. the organiza-
tion that is oﬀering a position.

• Indirect facets – top-level facets based on indirect at-
the size of the

tributes of the target instances, e.g.
organization associated with a job oﬀer.

• Nested facets – facets that in addition to (or instead
of) a set of individual restrictions contain a set of child
facets, e.g. a facet that contains facets for the size,
industry sector and employee rating of an organization
oﬀering a position.

Direct attributes of target instances are always presented
by means of direct facets. If only one indirect attribute of
an associated instance type is presented an indirect facet is
used.
If multiple indirect attributes of the same type are
presented a nested facet can be used so that each nesting
level corresponds to one level of attribute indirection.

Figure 1: Facet types (left) and adaptation exam-
ples (right). Bold text is used for recommendation,
tooltips and instance counts for annotation.

2.2 Facet adaptation

The facet adaptation stage processes all existing facets
and adapts them at run-time to the speciﬁc needs of indi-
vidual users. The primary goal is to reduce the informa-
tion overload of the user, to provide guidance towards the

user’s goal and to improve user orientation in the informa-
tion space. The adaptation process itself is based on the
same type of source data as the facet generation process –
on current user behavior, on the user model and on global
statistics. The adaptation of facets consists of these steps:
1. Active facet selection – the total number of available
facets is reduced to a reasonable number since many
facets are potentially available. Inactive facets are still
available per user request. E.g., the organization size
and industry sector facets would be active while the
driving license required facet would be inactive.

2. Facet ordering – all facets are ordered in descending
order based on their estimated relevance for the user.
3. Facet and restriction annotation – active facets and
their respective restrictions and child facets are anno-
tated to provide better user orientation. E.g., tooltips
describing the facet or the number of instances satisfy-
ing each restriction would be displayed (see Figure 1).
4. Facet restriction recommendation – the restrictions in
each facet are evaluated and if applicable, suitable re-
strictions are marked as recommended. E.g., IT com-
panies would be recommended if the user works as an
IT consultant (stored in the user model).

3. CONCLUSIONS

We presented a novel method of dynamic facet genera-
tion with successive facet adaptation as an enhancement
for generic faceted browsers. Our approach is suitable for
open information spaces as it not very susceptible to changes
which are a distinguishing characteristic of open information
spaces. We evaluated our method in the domain of job of-
fers (nazou.fiit.stuba.sk) and in the domain of scientiﬁc
publications (mapekus.fiit.stuba.sk). Our experiments
indicated that adaptive selection of active facets can signiﬁ-
cantly improve total processing time, which depends linearly
on the number of displayed facets and restrictions.

Furthermore, our approach reduces the reliance of existing
approaches on static data and increases the overall usabil-
ity of the faceted browser due to the availability of addi-
tional facets that can be used for navigation. The proposed
adaptation of facets alleviates some of the disadvantages
of faceted classiﬁcation, such as diﬃcult access to popular
items, and improves overall eﬃciency by reducing informa-
tion overload.

Acknowledgments. This work was partially supported by
the Slovak Research and Development Agency under the
contract No. APVT-20-007104, the State programme of re-
search and development under the contract No. 1025/04
and the Scientiﬁc Grant Agency of Slovak Republic, grant
No. VG1/3102/06.
4. REFERENCES
[1] R. Guha, R. McCool, and E. Miller. Semantic Search.

In 12th Int. Conf. on WWW, pages 700–709, 2003.

[2] K. Instone. How user interfaces represent and beneﬁt

from a faceted classiﬁcation system. In SOASIST, 2004.

[3] M. Tvarožek. Personalized Navigation in the Semantic
Web. In V. Wade et al., editor, Proc. of 4th Int. Conf.
on Adaptive Hypermedia and Adaptive Web-Based
Systems, pages 467–471. Springer, LNCS 4018, 2006.

LocationCalifornia(101)NewYork(257)...OrganizationSectorIT(25)Banking(17)AverageSalary>250kp.a.(2)>150kp.a.(36)Size>500employees(42)>100employees(33)......IndirectFacetDirectFacet...NestedFacet0NestedFacet1......NestedFacet2NestedFacet2.........Includessoftwaredevelopment,technicalsupport,networking,databasesandrelatedjobs.WWW 2007 / Poster PaperTopic: User Interfaces and Accessibility1312