Lessons from a Gnutella-Web Gateway

Brian D. Davison, Wei Zhang and Baoning Wu(cid:3)

Department of Computer Science & Engineering, Lehigh University

19 Memorial Dr. West, Bethlehem, PA 18015 USA

fdavison,wei,baw4g@lehigh.edu

ABSTRACT
We present a gateway between the WWW and the Gnutella peer-to-
peer network that permits searchers on one side to be able to search
and retrieve ﬁles on the other side of the gateway. This work im-
proves the accessibility of ﬁles across different delivery platforms,
making it possible to use a single search modality. We outline our
design and implementation, present access statistics from a test de-
ployment and discuss lessons learned.

Categories and Subject Descriptors
H.3.4 [Information Storage and Retrieval]: Systems and Soft-
ware—distributed systems

General Terms
Measurement, Design

Keywords
Peer-to-peer, Gnutella, search engine, World Wide Web

1.

INTRODUCTION

The search for information can take many forms. The availability
of multiple kinds of search tools both helps and hurts this process
— it can narrow the search to a smaller collection (when knowledge
of the collection contents is available), but it may also require the
searcher to perform multiple steps. Today, for example, it is com-
mon to provide access to ﬁles by putting them on a Web server,
or by sharing them within a peer-to-peer network. Some ﬁles may
only be available on one platform or the other, and so searchers are
thus required to use multiple tools to do an exhaustive search.

Our work is designed to improve the accessibility of ﬁles across
different delivery platforms, making it possible to use a single
search modality. We propose a gateway between the WWW and
the Gnutella peer-to-peer network [1] that permits searchers on one
side to be able to search and access ﬁles on the other.

While operating a P2P-Web gateway may consume substantial
resources, there are many motivations for doing so, including: im-
proving the accessibility of information within an organization, as
in an intranet, and, increasing the accessibility of speciﬁc informa-
tion (such as product literature), such as via a paid search service.

2. BACKGROUND

Peer-to-peer ﬁle sharing provides an important channel to allow
users to share their own ﬁles and retrieve information from remote
machines. Peer-to-peer systems are decentralized, and nodes will
freely join and leave the network on a frequent basis. Thus, a cen-
tral concern is how to locate available content. In Gnutella, queries
are distributed using a naive message ﬂooding approach. When a
query arrives at a Gnutella node, it searches locally and passes the
query to its neighbors (where the process is repeated until the query
has traveled a maximum number of hops). If ﬁles match the query,
a query hit message will be generated and passed back.

A gateway enables communication between networks that use
different protocols. This is exactly the purpose of our system, to
convert between the WWW and Gnutella, within the context of
search and retrieval. Our gateway operates both as a Gnutella client
and server and as a Web server and client.
It captures Gnutella
queries that it receives as a member of the network, and forwards
them to a search engine. The gateway takes the results from the
search engine responses and forms Gnutella messages to transfer
them back to the searcher via the P2P network. Similarly, when the
gateway receives a query through its Web interface, it distributes
the query to all of its Gnutella neighbors. As results are collected
from the network, they are presented to the Web searcher.

In addition to searching ﬁles, the gateway also helps searchers re-
trieve the ﬁles from the alternate network. Although Gnutella uses
HTTP for ﬁle transfer, additional constraints on the URL speciﬁ-
cation make a Gnutella client unable to retrieve an arbitrary URL
from the Web. In the other direction, a Web browser is able to gen-
erate a correct Gnutella retrieval request, but most Gnutella imple-
mentations will refuse such requests from browsers to discourage
users that are not participating in the network. Thus, it is neces-
sary to relay data from the Web to the Gnutella network (and vice
versa) to accommodate acceptable request formats. By providing
bi-directional search and retrieval services, the gateway provides
signiﬁcant beneﬁts for both Gnutella users and Web surfers.

In past years, there have been Gnutella search services (e.g., [2])
that provided a Web interface for users to enter a query, send that
query into the Gnutella network, and return results via the Web.
Links on the result page would go directly to the Gnutella sys-
tems, allowing the searcher to retrieve ﬁles directly. This type of
Web search no longer works — most Gnutella software will reject
browser clients with a message asking users to contribute to the
network by running Gnutella software.

(cid:3)The authors were supported in part by NSF grant ANI 9903052.

3.

IMPLEMENTATION

Copyright is held by the author/owner(s).
WWW2004, May 17–22, 2004, New York, New York, USA.
ACM 1-58113-912-8/04/0005.

The operation of our gateway is illustrated in Figure 1. A
Gnutella node broadcasts a query message (1), which is received,
translated, and forwarded by the gateway to a Web search engine

502Figure 1: Operation of the Gnutella-Web gateway.

(2), which generates a set of query results and returns them (3).
The gateway translates the results into Gnutella formats and then
forwards them to the sending node (4), such that results are avail-
able through the gateway. If the user sends a download request to
the gateway (5), the gateway will fetch the data from the Web server
(6) and return the data to the user (7).

In addition to serving Gnutella clients, our gateway also permits
Web users to query and retrieve resources in the Gnutella network.
In this direction, a Web user submits a query via a Web interface,
which is transmitted to the Gnutella systems connected to the gate-
way. As results are received from the Gnutella nodes, the gateway
compiles the results and presents a hit list to the Web searcher, spec-
ifying the gateway as the source of those ﬁles. If the Web searcher
attempts to download a ﬁle, the gateway will extract the original
Gnutella system’s address and ﬁlename and contact that node to
download the ﬁle, passing the contents back to the Web browser.

We modiﬁed an existing open-source Gnutella servent, Gtk-
Gnutella1, version 0.91.1, to implement our gateway system. Gtk-
Gnutella supports both versions 0.4 and 0.62 of the Gnutella pro-
tocol. Instead of searching a local ﬁlesystem when a query is re-
ceived, our system sends the query to a Web search engine.

A downloading request from a Gnutella client requires an index
number as well a ﬁle name to display to the user. We compose a
ﬁle name from the title of the Web page, generate a unique index
value, and record the actual URL along with the index value into a
local database. Thus, when a retrieval request arrives, we are able
to retrieve the URL from the database via using the index provided
in the Gnutella client’s request.

Since our gateway employs intranet or Web search engines
for back-end query processing, recklessly forwarding many P2P
queries may affect their service and even lead to a perceived Denial-
of-Service attack. Therefore, we enforce a minimum delay between
query transmissions (placing delayed queries into a queue).

While Web browsers don’t need the ﬁle size before downloading
a ﬁle, the Gnutella client must know it when a query hit occurs.
However, the gateway is unable to accurately know the ﬁle size
when Web links are returned from search engine, and an incorrect
ﬁle size will lead to downloading failure. To compensate, we used

1http://gtk-gnutella.sourceforge.net/
2http://rfc-gnutella.sourceforge.net/src/rfc-0 6-draft.html

No. of received queries
No. of served queries
No. of query responses
No. of successful downloads (Lehigh/all)

1,281,565
166,462
631,037
608 / 621

Table 1: Gateway usage statistics.

Figure 2: Query response time versus downloads.

an arbitrary ﬁle size of 52572 bytes, padding the returned (HTML)
ﬁle to match the advertised size.

4. EXPERIMENTS

We operated a test gateway connected to our university LAN
in October and November 2003. The gateway provides Gnutella
nodes with HTML page search and download for ﬁles found via
the Lehigh University search engine. Usage statistics are shown in
Table 1. The number of served requests is much lower than that
of received requests because we ﬁlter out some queries (e.g., those
speciﬁcally for ﬁletypes mp3, mpg, etc.) and ignore many queries
so as to not overwhelm the Lehigh search engine. Most downloads
are from internal Lehigh users, suggesting that such users may be
interested in retrieving information hosted within the intranet, even
though they are not intentionally using a tool to do so.

Since our prototype implementation queues P2P requests that
cannot be immediately satisﬁed, the overall response time of a
query can vary. We analyzed the relationship between the response
time and the number of downloads performed for results with a par-
ticular response time (that is, the time between when we received
the request and when we sent out the ﬁrst response). Figure 2 plots
the distribution of response times, and a normalized value of the
popularity of results at each response time.
It demonstrates that
users clearly prefer to download ﬁles from responses that arrive
quickly, particularly within 12 seconds.

5. SUMMARY

We presented a novel gateway system to extend the search and
retrieval abilities of Gnutella participants to the Web domain, and
vice versa. Our prototype has been tested to demonstrate the poten-
tial of our approach.

In the process, we have provided evidence that: 1) Gnutella users
are interested in retrieving content available on the Web; 2) univer-
sity students were able to automatically discover our server (even
though we did not advertise it, and most Gnutella clients ignore
network locality) and to download university-hosted Web content;
and, 3) Gnutella queries have a lifetime of 12 seconds, after which
results are ignored, and generally that faster responses are more
likely to be useful.

6. REFERENCES
[1] G. Kan. Gnutella. In A. Oram, editor, Peer to Peer:

Harnessing the Beneﬁts of Disruptive Technologies, chapter 8,
pages 94–122. O’Reilly, Sebastopol, CA, Mar. 2001.

[2] K. C. Sia, C. H. Ng, C. H. Chan, S. K. Chan, and L. Y. Ho.

Bridging the P2P and WWW divide with DISCOVIR –
DIStributed COntent-based Visual Information Retrieval. In
Poster Proc. of the 12th WWW Conf., Budapest, May 2003.

503