Visual Web Mining

David J. Duke
University of Leeds
Leeds, LS2 9JT, U.K.

Mohammed J. Zaki

Rensselaer Polytechnic Inst.

Troy, NY 12180, U.S.A.

djd@comp.leeds.ac.uk

zaki@cs.rpi.edu

Amir H. Yousseﬁ

Rensselaer Polytechnic Inst.

Troy, NY 12180, U.S.A.
yousseﬁ@cs.rpi.edu

ABSTRACT
Analysis of web site usage data involves two signiﬁcant challenges:
ﬁrstly the volume of data, arising from the growth of the web, and
secondly, the structural complexity of web sites. In this paper we
apply Data Mining and Information Visualization techniques to the
web domain in order to beneﬁt from the power of both human vi-
sual perception and computing; we term this Visual Web Mining.
In response to the two challenges, we propose a generic framework,
where we apply Data Mining techniques to large web data sets and
use Information Visualization methods on the results. The goal is
to correlate the outcomes of mining Web Usage Logs and the ex-
tracted Web Structure by visually superimposing the results. We
design several new information visualization diagrams.
Categories and Subject Descriptors: H.3.4 [Information Systems][
INFORMATION STORAGE AND RETRIEVAL][Systems and Soft-
ware]: World Wide Web (WWW) H.2.8 [Information Systems][
DATABASE MANAGEMENT][Database applications]: Data min-
ing H.5.4 [Information Systems][INFORMATION INTERFACES
AND PRESENTATION (I.7)][Hypertext/Hypermedia]:
[Naviga-
tion, User issues] H.5.2 [Information Systems][INFORMATION
INTERFACES AND PRESENTATION (I.7)][User Interfaces (D.2.2,
H.1.2, I.3.6)]: [Graphical user interfaces (GUI)]
General Terms: Design, Experimentation.
Keywords: Web Usage Mining, Information Visualization, Data
Mining, Frequent Access Patterns, Visual Data Exploration.
1.

INTRODUCTION

We deﬁne Visual Web Mining (VWM) as application of Infor-
mation Visualization techniques on results of Web Mining in order
to further amplify the perception of extracted patterns and visually
explore new ones in web domain.

The Visual Web Mining Framework, initially described in [5],
provides a prototype implementation for applying information vi-
sualization techniques on the results of Data Mining, in this case
Spade Sequence Mining Algorithm [6]. The same is applicable to
the other related data mining algorithms for mining the websites
e.g. Tree Mining and Graph Mining.
2. VISUAL WEB MINING ARCHITECTURE
A robot (webbot 1) is used to retrieve the pages of the website.
In parallel, Web Server Log ﬁles are downloaded and processed
through a sessionizer2 and a LOGML ﬁle is generated.

1http://www.w3.org/Robot/
2http://www.cs.rpi.edu/projects/pb/WWWPal/
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s).
WWW2004, May 17–22, 2004, New York, New York, USA.
ACM 1-58113-912-8/04/0005.

Figure 1: Sample implementation architecture of VWM

Data Mining Suite, Link Analysis Suite and User Proﬁling/Modeling

Suite need special data formats as input and produce output in pro-
priety formats hence the Integration Engine is required to covert the
data.

The Integration Engine is a suite of programs for data prepa-
ration i.e. extracting, cleaning, transforming, integrating data and
ﬁnally loading into database and later generating graphs in XGML.
The engine uses XQuery, XSLT and Regular Expressions on both
standard and propriety data formats.

Much effort is put into enhancing performance of the transfor-

mation system in the Integration Engine and the database.

We extract user sessions from web logs, this yields results of
roughly related to a speciﬁc user. User sessions are then converted
into a special format for Sequence Mining using cSPADE (contin-
ues Spade).

Outputs are frequent contiguous sequences with a given mini-
mum support. These are imported into a database, and non-maximal
frequent sequences are removed, i.e. we consider only the maximal
(based on subsequence relation) frequent contiguous sequences.
Later different queries are executed against this data according to
some criterion, e.g. support of each pattern, length of patterns, etc.
We unify different URLs which correspond to the same webpage
in the ﬁnal results.
2.1 Structures
2.1.1 Graphs

We have extended VTK for graph visualization by developing a
library called vtkGraph 3. Two approaches to visualize the output
of data mining have been implemented using this library. In the
ﬁrst approach [5] we extract a spanning tree from the site structure,
and use this as the framework for presenting access-related results
through glyphs and color mapping.

3see [2] and http://www.comp.leeds.ac.uk/djd/graphs/

394In the second approach, the link analysis is treated as a directed
graph. This graph is then laid out, using one of the following two
approaches: A) a form of Sugiyama layout, described by Auber [1]
or B) using higher dimensional embedding [3]. Here the graph is
ﬁrst drawn within a higher dimensional space, and then projected
into 2 or 3 dimensions via the Principal Components of this space.
2.1.2 Stream Tubes

Variable-width tubes showing mined access paths with different
trafﬁc are introduced on top of the web graph structure. Here, de-
pending on the type of visualization diagram, particular weights,
e.g. support of a single click-stream, total sum of support on all
click-streams, or the support extracted from Mining algorithm is
mapped onto the width (radius) of the stream tube. Color mapping
can be used on the number of users leaving the website (or a cluster
of these in a zoomed view), a property of the graph structure (such
as the Strahler value), or simply the number of hits of some branch.
2.2 Design and Implementation of Diagrams
Figure 2 is a visualization of web usage based on Strahler num-
bering for assigning colors to the edges. Strahler numbers were
originally an attempt to give quantitative information about the com-
plexity or shape of a tree. Herman et al [4] were the ﬁrst to pro-
pose using them for graph visualization. They described how these
numbers could be used to provide visual cues about tree structure.
The Strahler numbers were then generalized further by Auber [1]
to provide a means of characterizing the structural complexity of a
graph.

Figure 2: Left: 2D visualization with Strahler Coloring applied
on web usage logs. Right: Adding third dimension enables vi-
sualization of more information and clariﬁes user behavior in
and between clusters. Center node of circular basement is ﬁrst
page of web site from which users scatter to different clusters of
web pages. Color spectrum from Red (entry point into clusters)
to Blue (exit points) illustrates behavior of users.

The cylinder-like part of ﬁgure 2 (right) is visualization of web
usage of surfers as they browse a long HTML document converted
from LATEX by LaTeX2HTML software.

In ﬁgure 3, combination of a few visualizations techniques facil-
itates ﬁnding new patterns and analyzing the ones already found by
data mining algorithms. Our software framework design enables
ﬂexible selection of mappings between data attributes and visual-
ization dimensions suitable in different diagrams e.g. conﬁdence-
transparency mapping.

Using ﬁgure 4, a web analyzer can easily identify which parts of
the website are cold parts with few hits and which parts are hot ones
with many hits. This also paves the way for making exploratory
changes in website and to analyze the changes in user access. For
instance, a webmaster can change link structure (e.g. by adding a
hyper-link to a cold cluster from the ﬁrst page of website or any
page in hot clusters) and observe users’ navigation paths in the real
world.
3. CONCLUSIONS

We extend deﬁnition of Visual Web Mining and design different
visualization diagrams, each of which gives a new viewpoint for

Figure 3: Left: Frequent access patterns extracted by web
mining process with a special range of conﬁdence values are
visually superimposed as a graph of node-tubes (as opposed
to node-links). Thickness of the tubes represents aggregated
support of mined sequences which correnponds to frequency of
found patterns. Size of clickable Cube Glyphs represents hit of
webpages. Right: Superimposition of Web Usage on top of Web
Structure with higher order layout. Top node is the ﬁrst page
of website. Hierarchical output of layouts make analysis easier.

Figure 4: Left: Superimposition of website dynamics(colored)
on top of its static structure(gray). Right: Zoom view of col-
ored region with layout of Web Usage taken from Web Graph
basement. The basement itself is removed for clarity.

exploring frequent patterns of user access on a website. Different
visual superimposition diagrams are of particular interest. We clas-
sify webpages into two classes of hot and cold ones, attracting high
and low number of visitors. A webmaster can make exploratory
changes to website structure (e.g. by adding links between hot and
cold parts) and analyze the change in user access patterns in the
real world.

Given the interactive and graphical nature of our work, we en-
courage the reader to browse through the ﬁgures and download
video clips of the system in action from the VWM project web-
page 4.
4. REFERENCES
[1] D. Auber. Outils de visualisation de larges structures de

donnes. PhD thesis, Universite Bordeaux I, 2002.

[2] D. Duke. Modular techniques in information visualization. In
Proceedings of the 1st Australian Symposium on Information
Visualization, volume 9, pages 11–18, 2001.

[3] D. Harel and Y. Koren. Graph drawing by high dimensional
embedding. In Proceedings Graph Drawing 2002. Springer
Verlag, 2002.

[4] I. Herman, M. Delest, and G. Melancon. Graph visualization
and navigation in information visualization: A survey. IEEE
Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics, 6(1),
2000.

[5] A. H. Yousseﬁ, D. J. Duke, M. J. Zaki, and E. P. Glinert.

Toward visual web mining. In Visual Data Mining Workshop
IEEE Int’l Conf. on Data Mining, 2003.

[6] M. J. Zaki. Spade: An efﬁcient algorithm for mining frequent

sequences. Machine Learning Journal, 42:31–60, 2001.

4http://www.cs.rpi.edu/∼yousseﬁ/research/

395