WWW 2011 Program Chairs’ Welcome 

It is our great pleasure to welcome you to the World Wide Web Conference 
(WWW) held during March 28–April 1, 2011, at the Hyderabad International 
Convention  Centre  in  Hyderabad,  India.  The  WWW  Conference  is  the 
premier annual forum for sharing, discussing, and debating the latest research 
developments on Web technologies as well as on applications. Many novel 
research  results  are  presented  every  year  at  WWW  and  we  are  particularly 
pleased with presenting you this year with an exciting technical program.  

The main component of the program is represented by the research papers. 
We organized the submission of research papers into 12 tracks. These tracks 
cover all aspects of the Web from computing infrastructure and data analysis techniques to social systems and 
networks. The track chairs worked with us to refine each track into a number of topics. By just looking at 
these tracks and topics you can appreciate how many different research questions and directions exist in the 
area of the Web.  

In response to the call for papers, we received 658 research submissions. Right after the submission deadline, 
with help from the track chairs, we checked every submission to make sure that it was submitted to the most 
appropriate track. Each submission was carefully reviewed by at least three reviewers and by the first week of 
January 2011, the track chairs formed a rank ordering of the submissions in their respective tracks. A PC 
meeting was then held on January 10–11, 2011 at Yahoo! in Santa Clara (California), during which candidates 
for acceptance were discussed and submissions with conflicting reviews were carefully analyzed by the track 
chairs.    All  the  PC  meeting  participants  greatly  contributed  to  the  discussions  and  helped  us  in  making 
particularly difficult decisions. The result is a research paper program consisting of 81 papers that you find in 
the WWW 2011 Paper Proceedings.  

The  research  paper  program  is  complemented  by  the  following  supplemental  tracks.  The  special  research 
track,  titled  “Web  for  the  Emerging  Regions,”  focuses  on  research  contributions  in  the  problem  space  of 
extending  the  Web  to  emerging  regions.  The  poster  track  received  202  submissions  of  which  61  were 
accepted; in addition, 29 papers from the research paper track were recommended for poster publication, thus 
resulting in a total of 90 poster papers. Continuing the tradition from last year, we have a demo track; the goal 
of this track is to make possible for researchers to present live demos of their systems and applications. A total 
of 52 demos were submitted from which 25 were selected for presentation at the conference. The technical 
program  also  includes  tutorials,  workshops,  panels,  W3C  track,  Industrial  track,  and  PhD  Symposium. 
Material corresponding to these tracks can be found in the WWW 2011 Supplemental Proceedings. 

The organization of a program for a conference like WWW requires the collaboration of many individuals. 
First of all, we would like to thank the authors for submitting to WWW 2011 as it is their work that becomes 
the program, and the keynote speakers Sir Tim Berners-Lee, Dr. A. P. J. Abdul Kalam, and Prof. Christos H. 
Papadimitriou, for graciously accepting our invitation. We express our gratitude to the program track chairs, 
program committee members, and external reviewers for their efforts in reviewing the papers, engaging in 
active online discussion during the selection process and providing high-quality valuable feedback to authors. 
We  have  been  fortunate  to  have  attracted  top  experts  to  serve  as  track  chairs  and  program  committee 
members. We also thank Murat Kantarcioglu, from UT Dallas, and Marc Najork, from Microsoft Research, 
for a high-quality poster program, and Dennis Fetterly, from Microsoft Research and Marianne Winslett, from 
the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, for a wonderful job with the demo program. We would also 
like  to  acknowledge  the  panel  committee  for  a  set  of  panels  focusing  on  important  topics,  the  workshop 
committee for their effort in selecting an excellent set of workshops, and the tutorial committee for a broad 

tutorial  program.    Many  thanks  also  to  Gabriel  Ghinita,  from  Purdue  University,  and  Kunal  Punera,  from 
Yahoo! Research, for their service as proceeding editors and to the ACM’s proceedings production team. Our 
special thanks go to Arun Iyengar, from IBM Research, and Prabhakar Raghavan, from Yahoo! Labs, for their 
constant guidance. Last but not least we acknowledge the collaboration and support of the WWW General 
Chairs, Krithi Ramamritham and S. Sadagopan, and the WWW Associate General Chairs, Arun Kumar and P. 
Ravindra, and of the local arrangement committee. 

We trust that you will find this program exciting and that the conference will provide you with a valuable 
opportunity to interact with other researchers and practitioners from institutions and organizations around the 
world.  Enjoy!! 
 

Elisa Bertino 
 
Purdue University  

 
 

Ravi Kumar 
Yahoo! Research 

 
 

 
 

