GroupMe! – Where Information Meets

Fabian Abel

IVS – Semantic Web Group
Leibniz University Hannover
Appelstr. 4 D-30167 Hannover

abel@kbs.uni-
hannover.de

Nicola Henze

Daniel Krause

IVS – Semantic Web Group
Leibniz University Hannover
Appelstr. 4 D-30167 Hannover

IVS – Semantic Web Group
Leibniz University Hannover
Appelstr. 4 D-30167 Hannover

henze@kbs.uni-

hannover.de

krause@kbs.uni-

hannover.de

ABSTRACT
This paper presents the GroupMe! system, a resource shar-
ing system with advanced tagging functionality. GroupMe!
provides a novel user interface, which enables users to or-
ganize and arrange arbitrary Web resources into groups.
The content of such groups can be overlooked and inspected
immediately as resources are visualized in a multimedia-
based fashion. In this paper, we furthermore introduce new
folksonomy-based ranking strategies that exploit the group
structure shipped with GroupMe!
folksonomies. Experi-
ments show that those strategies signiﬁcantly improve the
performance of such ranking algorithms.
Categories and Subject Descriptors
H.4.m [Information Systems]: Miscellaneous;
H.5.3
[Information Systems]: Information interfaces and pre-
sentation (e.g., HCI)Group and Organization Interfaces; D.2.8
[Software Engineering]: Metrics—complexity measures,
performance measures
General Terms
Social Search
Keywords
Social Media, Search, Ranking, Folksonomies, GroupMe!

INTRODUCTION

1.
Popular Web 2.0 systems like Flickr, del.icio.us, Blogger or
others, which allow users to share photos, broadcast links, or
blog about topics they are interested in, illustrate a paradigm
shift in today’s Web systems. Instead of putting users in the
role of pure content consumers, these systems enable people
to create and share content easily, and encourage their cre-
ativity.

The tagging activity – assigning freely chosen keywords to
resources of interest – is one of the important characteristics
of these systems. The result of a single tagging activity is
a binding between a user, a resource, and the respective
keywords that this user assumes relevant for the resource.
The evolving set of such user-tag-resource bindings is called
a folksonomy1.

1http://vanderwal.net/folksonomy.html

Figure 1: Screenshot of the GroupMe! system: Cre-
ating a group of multimedia Web resources via drag
& drop.

The so-far developed folksonomy systems have in common
that the set of user-tag-resource bindings is hardly struc-
tured any further. Del.icio.us allows to structure tags by
grouping them into so-called bundles, and CiteULike2 allows
to structure users by the formation of user groups. Nobody
so far has investigated on the eﬀect of structuring the re-
source dimension in folksonomies. Bao et al. have revealed
that pure folksonomy-based ranking strategies have poten-
tial to improve Web search [2].
In this paper, we present GroupMe!, a novel Web 2.0 ap-
plication, which enables users via an intuitive user interface
to create groups of arbitrary Web resources. We propose
strategies to exploit the evolving group structures for rank-
ing algorithms, and show that they improve performance of
existing approaches signiﬁcantly.

2. GROUPME! TAGGING SYSTEM
GroupMe!3 is a new kind of resource sharing system, which
provides an enjoyable easy-to-use interface to create groups
of multimedia Web resources. Content of such groups can
be grasped immediately because resources are visualized ac-
cording to their media type, e.g. pictures are displayed as
thumbnails, videos can be played directly within the group,
and RSS feeds are previewed by displaying recent headlines.
GroupMe! users can either create groups while browsing the
web (via bookmarklet), or they use integrated search engines

Copyright is held by the author/owner(s).
WWW 2008, April 21–25, 2008, Beijing, China.
ACM 978-1-60558-085-2/08/04.

2http://citeulike.org
3http://groupme.org

1147WWW 2008 / Poster PaperApril 21-25, 2008 · Beijing, ChinaStrategy

C + Full Tag Propagation

B + Full Tag Propagation

B + Group Tag Propagation

C + Group Tag Propagation

(i)
(ii)
(iii)
(iv)
(v)
(vi)
(vii)
(viii) A + Group Tag Propagation
(ix)

A + Full Tag Propagation

B

A
C

OSim KSim
0.369
0.610
0.368
0.585
0.580
0.375
0.351
0.540
0.273
0.465
0.255
0.405
0.257
0.390
0.237
0.360
0.345
0.247

Table 1: Overview of OSim and KSim for diﬀer-
ent ranking strategies ordered by OSim, where the
dampen factor for propagating tags is 0.2.

like Flickr or Google to search for content that they like to
add to a group. Figure 1 shows the latter approach, where
the user adds a Flickr image via drag & drop into his group
about the “Travel to WWW 2008 conference”. The group
bundles valuable resources for the travel, like the website
and blog of the conference, a video tutorial about Chinese
language, photos of the hotel, or another related GroupMe!
group.

The content of each GroupMe! group as well as RDF
data, which is extracted from the data origin whenever a
new Web resource is added to a group, is made available via
RDF and RSS feeds, and RESTful client API. GroupMe! is a
free-for-all tagging system[5], which allows users to annotate
both, resources and groups. Tagging resources is always
done in context of a certain group. This group context gains
new relations between entities of the GroupMe! folksonomy,
which consists of user-tag-resource-group bindings, e.g. the
group’s tags are likely to be relevant for the members of the
group, and vice versa. Such new relations enable advanced
folksonomy-based ranking strategies.
3. ADVANCED RANKING STRATEGIES

Our main motivation is to analyze the eﬀect of group
structures on the quality of ranking algorithms. Therefore,
we base our ranking strategies on the FolkRank algorithm
[4]. FolkRank transforms the hypergraph spanned by the
user-tag-resource bindings into a weighted tripartite graph
GF, where an edge connects two entities (user, tag, or re-
source) if both entities occur together at a tag assignment
within the folksonomy, and the weight of an edge corre-
sponds to the amount of their cooccurences. GF serves as
input for an adapted PageRank algorithm, in which the ran-
dom surfer component is biased via a preference vector (e.g.
preference in a certain tag). The adapted PageRank is ap-
plied twice, without ( (cid:126)w0) and with ( (cid:126)w1) inﬂuence of the
preferences. (cid:126)w = (cid:126)w1 − (cid:126)w0 is the ﬁnal weight vector and (cid:126)w[x]
denotes the FolkRank of x ∈ V .

By ﬁnding ways to exploit the group structure for rank-
ing algorithms we conﬁne ourself on adapting the process
of constructing the graph GF from the 4-uniform hyper-
graph spanned by the GroupMe! tag assignments (user-tag-
resource-group bindings). We propose three main strate-
gies. Those strategies transform a GroupMe!
tag assign-
ment (u, t, r, g) into...
A. Normal FolkRank: traditional tag assignments (u, t, r).
B. Groups as Tags: two traditional tag assignments

(u, t, r) and (u, tg, r), where tg is an artiﬁcial tag in-
troduced for each group.

C. Group Context-based Tags: one tag assignment

(u, ttg, r), where ttg is an artiﬁcial tag that is composed
of the actual tag t and the group context g.

Furthermore, we introduce two additional approaches that
can be applied to the strategies above: (i) Group Tag Propa-
gation eﬀects that tags, which are assigned to a group g, are
propagated to the resources contained in g, and (ii) Full Tag
Propagation causes that also the resources propagate their
tags to other resources within the group and to the group
itself. For both extensions the inﬂuence of the propagated
tags can be adjusted via a dampen factor d ∈ [0..1], where
d = 1 means that there is made no distinction between user-
given and propagated tag assignments.

For the evaluations of the proposed group-aware rank-
ing strategies we concentrated on ranking of resources and
groups, and use the OSim and KSim metrics as proposed in
[3] in order to measure the quality of the ranking strategies
with respect to hand-selected rankings, which base on ex-
perts votes. OSim measures the overlap between two rank-
ing, whereas KSim determines the degree of pairwise dis-
tinct resources that have the same relative order in both
rankings. As input for the algorithms we used a snapshot
of the GroupMe! data set, which consists of 235 users, 978
tags, 1351 resources, 273 groups, and 1758 tag assignments.
Table 1 overviews the measurement results. Regarding
OSim and KSim, strategies (i)-(v) perform better than strate-
gies (vi-xi), where (vi) represents the normal FolkRank algo-
rithm, which does not take the group context into account.
Detailed analysis of the results (see [1]) prove that, e.g. the
strategy “B. Groups as Tags” improves OSim and KSim sig-
niﬁcantly – tested with a one-tailed t-Test and a signiﬁcance
level of α = 0.05.
4. CONCLUSIONS
With our evaluation, we have proven that the grouping of
resources signiﬁcantly improves the quality of search in folk-
sonomies. The grouping activity itself brings many advan-
tages for users: they can organize resources of interest, they
can overlook and inspect a group’s content, or they can
share groups with fellow users. Furthermore, the drag &
drop metaphor realized in the GroupMe! system makes the
grouping activity intuitive for users. Thus, while grouping is
an easy and well-received feature for folksonomies, this ac-
tivity provides, on the technical side, valuable information
to detect relevant resources, and to improve the quality of
search.
5. REFERENCES
[1] F. Abel, N. Henze, and D. Krause. On the eﬀect of

Group Structures on Ranking Strategies in
Folksonomies. Technical report, L3S, January 2008.

[2] S. Bao, G. Xue, X. Wu, Y. Yu, B. Fei, and Z. Su.

Optimizing web search using social annotations. In
Proc. WWW ’07, pages 501–510, New York, NY, USA,
2007. ACM Press.

[3] T. H. Haveliwala. Topic-sensitive pagerank: A

context-sensitive ranking algorithm for web search.
IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data
Engineering, 15(4):784–796, 2003.

[4] A. Hotho, R. J¨aschke, C. Schmitz, and G. Stumme.
FolkRank: A ranking algorithm for folksonomies. In
Proc. FGIR 2006, 2006.

[5] C. Marlow, M. Naaman, D. Boyd, and M. Davis. HT06,

tagging paper, taxonomy, ﬂickr, academic article, to
read. In Proc. HYPERTEXT ’06, pages 31–40, New
York, NY, USA, 2006. ACM Press.

1148WWW 2008 / Poster PaperApril 21-25, 2008 · Beijing, China