Meaning and the Semantic Web

Bijan Parsia

University of Maryland
College Park, MD, USA
bparsia@isr.umd.edu

Peter F. Patel›Schneider

Bell Labs Research
Murray Hill, NJ, USA

pfps@research.bell›labs.com

ABSTRACT
The meaning of names (URI references) is a contentious issue in
the Semantic Web. Numerous proposals have been given for how
to provide meaning for names in the Semantic Web, ranging from a
strict localized model-theoretic semantics to proposals for a uni(cid:2)ed
single meaning. We argue that a slight expansion of the standard
model-theoretic semantics for names is suf(cid:2)cient for the present,
and can easily be augmented where necessary to allow communi-
ties of interest to strengthen this spartan theory of meaning.
Categories and Subject Descriptors: I.2.4 [Knowledge Repre-
sentation Formalisms and Methods]: Representation languages
General Terms: Languages, Theory
Keywords: Semantic Web, representation, meaning

1.

INTRODUCTION

The Semantic Web [1] is an extension of the World Wide Web.
The major philosophical difference between the Semantic Web and
the World Wide Web is that the Semantic Web is supposed to pro-
vide machine accessible meaning for its constructs whereas in the
World Wide Web this meaning is provided by external mechanisms.
This meaning is largely based on the meaning of names which, in
the Semantic Web, are URI references [4].

The initial view of the meaning of names in the Semantic Web
was that the meaning of a name was determined by the owner of
the name, if there is an owner. For names that use schemes based
on authorities, such as the http scheme, this owner can be easily
discovered by stripping off the fragment identi(cid:2)er, if any, and us-
ing the standard World Wide Web mechanisms to determine the
owner of the resulting URI. In this view, good practice requires the
URI’s owner to supply documents, accessible from the correspond-
ing URI, which more or less express a de(cid:2)nition of that URI. That
de(cid:2)nition is determinative, at least, in that a third party which dis-
covered that de(cid:2)nition through normal Web mechanisms and made
use of it in reasoning with documents using that URI has, ceteris
paribus, exercised due diligence with respect to the URI owner’s
de(cid:2)nitorial authority. In this view, it is unclear whether publishing
documents at the relevant URI de(cid:2)nes that URI, or simply provides
a respectable default for random Web agents. This view of meaning
led to Section 4.3, on the authoritative de(cid:2)nition of terms, of the 23
January 2003 version of Resource Description Framework (RDF):
Concepts and Abstract Syntax [5]. (It is still enshrined in section
3.4, on authoritative representation metadata, of the Architecture of
the World Wide Web [3].)

During the last call period of the above document, consider-
able pressure was applied against this view of meaning, mostly
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s).
WWW2004, May 17(cid:150)22, 2004, New York, New York, USA.
ACM 1›58113›912›8/04/0005.

because it does not allow for any divergence of meaning. As a
result, the current version of the document [4] does not have a sec-
tion on the meaning of RDF, leaving RDF [6] with only the sparse
meaning provided by its model-theoretic semantics [2]. In this ac-
count, the meaning of a name in RDF is relative to a particular
RDF graph (which roughly corresponds to an RDF/XML docu-
ment in the World Wide Web). Furthermore, the relativization does
not strongly constrain the possible consistent interpretations of the
name (and, thus, of the graph). However, there is still a need to
provide a stronger meaning for names than that provided by this
model-theoretic semantics, in particular, to allow for or require the
use of the meaning available from other documents.
2. THE PROPOSAL

We propose that this stronger meaning need only be de(cid:2)ned in
a local sense, as opposed to the global sense above. The meaning
of an occurrence of a URI is thus determined by its context, which
we take to mean the document in which it appears, plus other doc-
uments explicitly mentioned in constructs like the OWL importing
mechanism.1 For determining the meaning of a collection of doc-
uments, we propose to use only that meaning determined by the
formal language speci(cid:2)cations of the Semantic Web, currently the
RDF model theory [2] and the OWL model theory [7].

Our proposal allows for divergences of meaning between differ-
ent documents. A document that does not explicitly import a well-
known ontology document, or, indeed any commonly-used docu-
ment, can easily diverge from any portion, or indeed all, of the
common meaning of any name. For example, a document could
ignore the common meaning of an invoice and instead use one that
has the consequence that the seller owes the buyer money.

One might think that our account of meaning thus results in com-
plete anarchy in the Semantic Web. Even if so, we believe we have
embraced only those portions of anarchy that are necessary to pre-
vent totalitarianism, for any proposal for Semantic Web meaning
that cuts off easy access to disagreements will inevitably end up
stultifying the Semantic Web.

Of course we really do not have a solution to handling disagree-
ment in the Semantic Web. Our proposal just makes disagreement
about the meaning of terms possible. A full solution to disagree-
ment requires much more formal machinery than we feel is ap-
propriate at this juncture in the development of the Semantic Web.
Further, no strictly formal means will be completely adequate to
handle disagreement, short of a full solution to the AI problem, as
determining which one of a collection of contradictory claims to
believe inevitably brings in matters of trust and judgement. Our
1We would like to be able to include portions of documents, not just
whole documents. However, there are currently no mechanisms for
indicating portions of Semantic Web documents written in RDF or
OWL, so this is not currently possible.

306point is that it is necessary to allow unquali(cid:2)ed disagreement even,
or especially, at this stage of the Semantic Web.

Our proposal does, however, allow for consensus to be achieved,
and in an easy fashion. All that is required to achieve consensus
concerning meaning is to have the same background theory (and
same external intuitions, but this is outside the Semantic Web) and
our proposal makes it easy to build such consensus by placing a
representation of the consensus in commonly-used documents.

Communities of interest that want to mandate a shared meaning
can require the use of such consensus documents. These communi-
ties would have, of course, cut themselves off from potentially valu-
able dissent, but there are many cases, including electronic com-
merce, where some common meaning is useful or even required
for progress, particularly with our poor understanding of how to
build truly cognitive software systems. The need in our scheme for
explicit importing of these consensus documents provides signals
that a document adheres to this meaning, and these signals can be
read both within and without the community.

Our proposal also makes it easy to determine (most of) at least
the formal part of consensus meaning that is required by a docu-
ment. The explicitly imported documents in a document (and their
imported documents, and so on) provide an excellent indication of
just which consensus meanings a document uses. Further the Se-
mantic Web meaning of these consensus documents is just their
formal meaning, which is easy to determine.

We freely admit that this notion of Semantic Web meaning is
insuf(cid:2)cient to capture the entirely of the meaning intended by doc-
ument writers, and likewise insuf(cid:2)cient to capture the entirely of
the meaning which the behaviour of many effective software agents
will act upon. There is nothing, however, in our proposal that pre-
vents software systems from augmenting, or even replacing, the Se-
mantic Web meaning with their own notions of meaning. Semantic
Web meaning only serves as a core, common meaning for Semantic
Web documents, to be used or abused as desired. As the Semantic
Web evolves, some of these augmented notions of the meaning of
the document may become common enough, and well understood
enough, to augment or replace the core, standardized meaning. But
this is an juncture where we feel strongly that (further) standardiza-
tion should follow (future) practice.

To allow for software systems of differing sophistication and dif-
fering needs we augment our basic proposal above to allow Se-
mantic Web meaning to be contingent on a set of Semantic Web
languages that the system understands. Semantic Web meaning for
software systems that do not implement OWL entailment would
then be less powerful than Semantic Web meaning for software sys-
tems that do. There are mechanisms in the World Wide Web that
can be used to support their variations on Semantic Web meaning.
We would augment the importing mechanism to use content negoti-
ation, allowing OWL-aware systems to request the OWL version of
a resource identi(cid:2)ed by a URI and RDF-aware systems to request
the RDF version of the same resource.

This re(cid:2)nement does require considerable care on the part of de-
signers of documents, so that, for example, OWL and RDF docu-
ments at the same resource have compatible meanings. However,
this is not really different in spirit from issues having to do with the
relationship between JPEG and GIF documents at the same URI.

One advantage is that this allows for growth in the Semantic
Web. New languages, such as a rules extension for OWL, can be
added to the Semantic Web and retro(cid:2)tted to previous ontologies,
augmenting their Semantic Web meaning for software systems that
can process the new language while still retaining the old behaviour
for existing systems. It is even possible to have Semantic Web lan-
guages that are not compatible with OWL or even RDF.

This view of meaning in the Semantic Web is certainly not the
one what we would like to have for all time. When the Semantic
Web becomes more widespread, when information in it becomes
more sophisticated, and when more powerful software systems for
the Semantic Web become available our simple version of Seman-
tic Web meaning will be inadequate. For example, it would be
useful to reason about contradictory information in different docu-
ments. For example, it would be useful to reason within the Seman-
tic Web that some buyer and seller do have mutually contractory
views. This can be done in certain kinds of modal logics, which
would thus be useful as the foundations of a more powerful theory
of meaning in the Semantic Web.

In this context it would also be useful to be able to reason, again
within the theory of meaning of the Semantic Web, about the rights
and obligations of agents within the Semantic Web. This sort of
reasoning can perhaps be supported by a theory of meaning that
includes these sorts of concepts.

It would also be useful to import only speci(cid:2)c portions of doc-
uments. A future extension of Semantic Web languages that allow
portions of documents to be identi(cid:2)ed would permit this more (cid:2)ne
grained version of importing.

Finally, it does seem a bit odd, if somewhat harmless, that
the OWL importing mechanism is an OWL importing mechanism,
rather than an RDF one. It seems harmless as this is not a large
extension to RDF and, if it proves popular, may become a de facto
standard extension to RDF, eventually to be incorporated into RDF
itself. (This possible course of events echoes the migration of the
DAML+OIL collections constructs into RDF.) While the need for
richer imports mechanisms becomes more acute for higher layers of
the Semantic Web language stack, such as rules, it seems unlikely
that any would con(cid:3)ict in a systematic way with OWL’s imports
construct. So we get exactly what we want: some mechanism that
we can use now, that is plausibly forward compatible with future
mechanisms.
3. CONCLUSION

We have argued that meaning in the Semantic Web can be use-
fully determined using only a slight expansion the formal meaning
provided by RDF and that this formal account need not require a
common, universal notion of meaning in the Semantic Web. The
only sharing mechanism needed, at least for now, is an explicit im-
portation mechanism, similar to that provided in OWL. In this way
information can be shared as appropriate, thus preventing total an-
archy, but need not be, thus allowing for differences of opinion,
which are needed to prevent totalitarianism and its resultant stulti-
(cid:2)cation and ossi(cid:2)cation.
4. REFERENCES
[1] T. Berners-Lee, J. Hendler, and O. Lassila. The semantic web.

Scienti(cid:2)c American, May 2001.

[2] P. Hayes. RDF model theory. W3C Recommendation, 10 Feb. 2004.

http://www.w3.org/TR/rdf-mt.

[3] I. Jacobs. Architecture of the world wide web, (cid:2)rst edition. W3C

Working Draft, 9 December 2003.
http://www.w3.org/TR/2003/WD-webarch-20031209.

[4] G. Klyne and J. J. Carroll. Resource description framework (RDF):

Concepts and abstract syntax. W3C Rec., 10 Feb. 2004.
http://www.w3.org/TR/rdf-concepts.

[5] G. Klyne and J. J. Carroll. Resource description framework (rdf):

Concepts and abstract syntax. W3C Recommendation, 10 Feb. 2004.
http://www.w3.org/TR/2003/WD-rdf-concepts-20030123.

[6] F. Manola and E. Miller. RDF primer. W3C Recommendation, 10 Feb.

2004. http://www.w3.org/TR/rdf-primer.

[7] P. F. Patel-Schneider, P. Hayes, and I. Horrocks. OWL web ontology
language semantics and abstract syntax. W3C Recommendation, 10
Feb. 2004. http://www.w3.org/TR/owl-semantics.

307