The Two Cultures∗

Mashing up Web 2.0 and the Semantic Web

– Position paper –

Anupriya Ankolekar, Markus Krötzsch, Thanh Tran, Denny Vrandecic

Institut AIFB, Universität Karlsruhe (TH), Germany

[ankolekar,kroetzsch,tran,vrandecic]@aifb.uni-karlsruhe.de

ABSTRACT
A common perception is that there are two competing vi-
sions for the future evolution of the Web: the Semantic Web
and Web 2.0. A closer look, though, reveals that the core
technologies and concerns of these two approaches are com-
plementary and that each ﬁeld can and must draw from the
other’s strengths. We believe that future web applications
will retain the Web 2.0 focus on community and usability,
while drawing on Semantic Web infrastructure to facilitate
mashup-like information sharing. However, there are sev-
eral open issues that must be addressed before such applica-
tions can become commonplace. In this paper, we outline a
semantic weblogs scenario that illustrates the potential for
combining Web 2.0 and Semantic Web technologies, while
highlighting the unresolved issues that impede its realiza-
tion. Nevertheless, we believe that the scenario can be real-
ized in the short-term. We point to recent progress made in
resolving each of the issues as well as future research direc-
tions for each of the communities.

Categories and Subject Descriptors
H.3.5 [Information Storage and Retrieval]: Online Infor-
mation Systems; H.4.3 [Communications applications]:
Information browsers; H.5.3 [Information Interfaces]:
Group and Organization Interfaces—Web-based interactions

General Terms
Human Factors, Languages

Keywords
Web 2.0, Semantic Web, Blog, RDF, Vision

1.

INTRODUCTION

There is a common perception that there are two com-
peting visions about the future evolution of the Web: the
Semantic Web and Web 2.0. We believe that the technolo-
gies and core strengths of these visions are complementary,
rather than in competition. In fact, both technologies need
each other in order to scale beyond their own strongholds.
∗With all due respect to C.P. Snow whose title we reuse.

Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Com-
mittee (IW3C2). Distribution of these papers is limited to classroom use,
and personal use by others.
WWW 2007, May 8–12, 2007, Banff, Alberta, Canada.
ACM 978-1-59593-654-7/07/0005.

The Semantic Web can learn from Web 2.0’s focus on com-
munity and interactivity, while Web 2.0 can draw from the
Semantic Web’s rich technical infrastructure for exchanging
information across application boundaries.

The Semantic Web vision outlined in [6] has inspired a
big community of researchers and practitioners, and they
have achieved a number of goals:
languages like RDF [37]
and RDF(S) [12] were revised, the Web Ontology Language
OWL [47] was standardised. Academic research contributed
methodologies for ontology engineering [48, 51], evolution
[36], debugging [30], and modularisation [46], and has lead
to a thorough understanding of the complexity and decid-
ability of common ontology languages [4]. These insights en-
abled the implementation of increasingly scalable solutions
for inferencing [29], and of improved modelling tools for on-
tologies [32]. Based on those achievements, major companies
like Oracle and IBM are working on large scale data stores
supporting Semantic Web standards, and a growing number
of specialised companies such as Aduna, Altova, Ontoprise,
and TopQuadrant provide industrial strength tool sets facili-
tating the use of semantic technologies in corporate settings.
The Web 2.0 technologies, as outlined in [42] and exempli-
ﬁed by sites such as Wikipedia1, ﬂickr 2 and HousingMaps3,
augment the Web and allow for an easier distributed collab-
oration. They are distinguished from classical web technolo-
gies by various characteristic features:

• Community. Web 2.0 pages allow contributors to col-
laborate and share information easily. The emerging
result could not have been achieved by each individual
contributor, be it a music database like freedb,4 or an
event calendar like upcoming 5. Each contributor gains
more from the system than she puts into it.
• Mashups. Certain services from diﬀerent sites can
be pulled together in order to experience the data in
a novel and enhanced way. This covers a whole range
of handcrafted solutions, ranging from the dynamic
embedding of AdSense6 advertisements to the visual-
isation of CraigList’s7 housing information on Google
Map8, as done by HousingMap9.

1http://wikipedia.org
2http://www.flickr.com
3http://www.housingmaps.com
4http://www.freedb.org
5http://upcoming.org
6http://www.google.com/adsense
7http://www.craigslist.org
8http://maps.google.com
9http://www.housingmaps.com

WWW 2007 / Track: Semantic WebSession: Semantic Web and Web 2.0825• AJAX. The technological pillar of the Web 2.0 al-
lows to create responsive user interfaces, and thus fa-
cilitated both of the other pillars: community pages
with slick user interfaces could reach much wider audi-
ences, and mashups that incorporate data from diﬀer-
ent websites introduced asynchronous communication
for more responsive pages.

It is notable that the term Web 2.0 was actually not intro-
duced to refer to a vision, but to characterise the current
state of the art in web engineering [42].

We believe that these two ideas are complementary rather
than competing – a view that is gaining acceptance within
the Semantic Web community, as shown, e.g., in panel dis-
cussions at WWW 200610 and ISWC 200611. The goals of
the Semantic Web vision and Web 2.0 are aligned, and each
brings it owns strengths into the picture.

The Semantic Web vision predates the rise of the Web 2.0,
but did not foresee the emergence of the Web 2.0 or take
this into proper account. After years of successful progress
in semantic technologies, we believe that the time has come
for the Semantic Web community to look back at the Web,
in particular Web 2.0 applications and tools. The Semantic
Web community is realising the potential that communities
and AJAX can bring to the Semantic Web, as exempliﬁed
in research studying the relationship of folksonomies and
ontologies [39], or in the growing number of Semantic Web
tools using AJAX technology [43]. On the other hand, it is
time to study Web 2.0 mashups, identify their limitations,
and leverage existing Semantic Web solutions in order to
boldly go beyond these limitations.

In order to demonstrate the complementarity of the two
ideas, we will describe a Web 2.0 scenario using semantic
technologies. We claim that the presented vision can be-
come reality within less than two years. We outline an ar-
chitecture and describe the missing parts that are required
in order to achieve the vision. None of these missing parts
require huge engineering eﬀorts or will be hampered with
open research issues. Nevertheless, actually realizing these
parts will inevitably lead to a whole slew of new require-
ments and will help the research community to focus on the
topics that emerge as being the most relevant on the open
Semantic Web.

We base our work on the following three hypotheses. They
criticise certain assumptions that are found in some parts
of the Semantic Web community, and they have guided us
in the formulation of the presented example scenario. We
think that these hypotheses can help to reconcile the two
communities, as the remainder of the paper will show.

1. The Semantic Web will be a World Wide Web.
This means, it will not be restricted to corporate in-
tranets or consist of singular islands of knowledge. It
rather will be based on large portions of the web, dis-
playing a heavy reuse of URIs and a high level of in-
terconnection. This does not mean, that corporate
semantic intranets will not exist: it is even expected,
that in these cases they will have certain advantages
over the Worldwide Semantic Web, but in general the

10http://www2006.org/programme/item.php?id=panelk01
11http://iswc2006.semanticweb.org/program/webpanel.
php

latter will be easily the most prominent and most de-
manding part of the infrastructure.

2. A bottom up, user-centred approach is required
for the Semantic Web to take hold. The Web it-
self was not started by major companies: it started in
research facilities and with private, personal web sites.
Only years later companies recognised the need for a
web presence. Indeed we think that among the ﬁrst
popular Semantic Web sites we will ﬁnd community-
centred eﬀorts such as semantically enhanced blogs
and wikis. Yet many large scale projects today move
the other way.

3. “A little semantics goes a long way.” 12 The ﬁrst
iteration of the Semantic Web will proﬁt enormously
from light-weight languages for exchanging informa-
tion. They will have to go beyond the expressiveness
of RDFS, for example in order to allow instance iden-
tiﬁcation and some light-weight mappings, but they
might also be well below the expressivity oﬀered by
OWL DL or OWL Lite.13

2. SCENARIO

In this section, we describe a concrete scenario of how
Semantic Web technologies could enhance current Web 2.0
tools and experience. We pick blogging as a typical exam-
ple of a Web application that is widely used, in particular
for posting opinions and links to other content on the Web.
This makes it fertile ground to explore the possibilities of ex-
tensive data integration and reuse enabled by the Semantic
Web.14

Let’s consider Chrissie, who has been blogging for three
years. She ﬁrst started with a Web-based blogging ser-
vice, but recently moved to a Webspace that runs PHP and
MySQL, allowing her to use one of the popular blog pub-
lishing systems like Movable Type15 or WordPress16.

Chrissie is a fairly typical Web blogger, having some basic
skill in HTML and CSS. Her blog oﬀers an RSS feed [5], but
this is automatically provided by the blogging application
itself. She does not know how an RSS feed is written, al-
though she can subscribe to RSS feeds. She has never heard
of RDF, and is thus unaware that her RSS feed is probably
based on RDF. She of course is not aware of Semantic Web
standards like OWL, SPARQL [45], or XML [10].

Chrissie goes to the cinema regularly and tend to blog
afterwards about the movies she watched. Her audience is
fairly small, mostly friends and acquaintances, and some
people who might accidentally stumble upon her movie re-
views. She follows a straightforward workﬂow when writing
reviews on her blog. Just as for any other blog entry, she cre-
ates a new entry, enters a title, writes the text, and maybe
tags it with one or more tags, e.g. describing the genre of
the movie [38]. After pushing the publish button, the entry
12Jim Hendler, Opening the International Semantic Web
Conference in 2003
13Tractable fragments of OWL 1.1, for instance, could be-
come very relevant http://owl1_1.cs.manchester.ac.uk/
tractable.html.
14The idea of semantic blogging is not new, and has been
described previously in [31, 15, 16].
15http://www.movabletype.org/
16http://wordpress.org/

WWW 2007 / Track: Semantic WebSession: Semantic Web and Web 2.0826The movie data pulled in by Chrissie’s blog is available on
a central space in a machine-readable format. This could be
a semantically enhanced Wikipedia [52], a semantically en-
hanced IMDb, or simply a screenscraping service (such like
the various scrapers available at SIMILE18) that extracts the
requested information from the IMDb movie page. There
are already mature technologies available and it is only a
matter of time before such a data source becomes reality. In
fact, DBLP for instance, a service for collecting and provid-
ing bibliographic metadata19, has recently been enhanced
with a SPARQL endpoint that enables the query and reuse
of DBLP data in a simple and standard way.

The movie information that Chrissie draws from may be
static data, for instance the director and the actors of the
movie. Such information can be pulled into the sidebar once
and will basically remain unchanged afterwards, barring of
course factual inaccuracies and typos. Other displayed in-
formation may be semi-static, such as the awards received
by the movie, or dynamic, such as the current chart position
of the movie or the availability of tickets for that movie in
local cinemas. These diﬀerent kinds of data will each need
to be cached diﬀerently. In addition, the sidebar might itself
be displayed before all the data has actually been gathered
and then updated dynamically, e.g. using AJAX. This is
necessary to keep the response time of Chrissie’s blog ac-
ceptable.
2.2 Dynamic data sources

If Chrissie were to conﬁgure Smoov with a (URL) list of
her favourite cinemas, the plug-in could locate additional
dynamic information, such as the movies currently playing
at the cinemas. Such a service could be oﬀered by city guide
sites that collect such information anyway, or by the cinemas
themselves or perhaps by applications that screenscrape the
cinema websites and generate RDF data. Once the movie
stops running in the cinemas, Smoov would simply stop dis-
playing the movie showtimes. Once the DVD of the movie is
out, as reported by IMDb, the plug-in could link to Chrissie’s
favourite movie stores and online rental services, as conﬁg-
ured by her, and display the prices of the movie.

Why is this scenario of dynamic data sources realistic?
Cinemas have several beneﬁts when providing information
about current movies and their showtimes in RDF. Based
on XML, RDF is an universal model for data representation
and at the same time, simple enough for many processing
tasks like the combination of disparate data, e.g. automated
mashups. Moreover, ontologies associated with RDF data
deliver the semantics that facilitate machine-based interpre-
tation and processing. Most importantly, there are already
RDF stores and reasoners available for the exploitation of
these merits. These technologies enable greater interoper-
ability, control, correctness and consistency of the the data
that can be transferred over the Web. Thus, cinemas can
reach a larger user groups and propagate changes in their
programmes more eﬃciently in a standardised and uniform
way through the Web. Oﬀering such information also re-
quires fairly low eﬀort. Most cinemas maintain that infor-
mation in a database anyway and only need to attach a
SPARQL endpoint to their database, or write a simple RDF
exporter besides an existing HTML exporter.
18http://simile.mit.edu/wiki/Category:Javascript_
screen_scraper
19http://dblp.uni-trier.de/

Figure 1: A screenshot of the movie plug-in used
in a blog entry. The plug-in adds a sidebar to the
entry containing the picture, the data about the
movie (running time, director, actors, etc.), and the
screening times dynamically acquired from external
sites.

is saved in her blog database. The blog publishing system
then takes care of displaying the entry on the front page
of her blog and archiving the entry appropriately. Further-
more, the RSS feed will be updated with the entry, so that
subscribed feed readers can get the new entry.
2.1 Reusing data from the Web

Now imagine a blog application movie plug-in that uses
Semantic Web technologies and allows people to add infor-
mation about movies to their blog entries. Chrissie chances
upon this plug-in–let’s call it Smoov–and installs it. Her
workﬂow for writing movie reviews now changes slightly. To
begin with, Chrissie has to explicitly state that she is writ-
ing a movie review. This causes a number of extra ﬁelds
to appear in her blogging application. The ﬁrst ﬁeld asks
her to identify the movie. She can specify the exact title of
the movie or search for movies by entering the actors, the
director etc. Other methods of identifying movies could use,
e.g., a few selected authoritative sources such as the IMDb17
page or the Wikipedia article of the movie and reuse their
URIs. If both pages are known to refer to the same movie,
e.g. via the Wikipedia’s external link to the IMDb movie
page, it would not matter which page Chrissie uses as the
movie identiﬁer.

Now that Chrissie has identiﬁed the movie, Smoov pulls
in some data about the movie and creates a movie sidebar,
as shown in Figure 1. Chrissie conﬁgured the sidebar once
to show speciﬁc information about movies, such as the di-
rector, the major actors, running time, production company,
release year, but also the URL of a poster or some distinctive
pictures from the movie, and a link to the oﬃcial Web site of
the movie. She now checks to see whether the sidebar looks
good, and chooses an appropriate picture to display on the
movie sidebar. Using RDF licence information accompany-
ing pictures from the movie [17], Smoov guides Chrissie in
choosing a picture that conforms to legal requirements.

17http://www.imdb.com/

WWW 2007 / Track: Semantic WebSession: Semantic Web and Web 2.0827The interoperability of data exchange of course assumes
the existence of an accepted vocabulary for such data. Cre-
ating a novel vocabulary, on the other hand, would require
considerable engineering eﬀort, which a single cinema can-
not and should not provide. However, there are increasingly
more ontologies available on the web which can be reused –
Swoogle20 alone has indexed more than 10,000 ontologies.
Other data sources like Amazon21 also beneﬁt similarly:
their data pushed this way to targeted groups is under their
control, with dynamic updates to prices and other product
information.

Bloggers like Chrissie also beneﬁt with low eﬀort. She
only needs to conﬁgure which Web services should be used
and in return, she get current data on her blog entries and
the chance to beneﬁt ﬁnancially, e.g. through an aﬃliates
program, like the one Amazon oﬀers.
2.3 Personalisation of Web sites

There are also some interesting personalisation possibil-
ities in this scenario. Readers of Chrissie’s blog, who do
not live geographically close to Chrissie, may not care too
much about information on movie showtimes in Chrissie’s
favourite cinema. On the other hand, what if Chrissie’s blog
could display movie showtimes for their favourite cinemas?
There are several ways to realize such a scenario:

• Smoov could try to guess the location of the reader,
based on her IP. Although Web advertisements often
use this form of personalisation, it has several draw-
backs. Smoov might just guess wrong or determine a
location that is too generic to be useful. This also help
only in the identiﬁcation of the user’s location – but
no other information about her.

• If Chrissie’s blog oﬀers user registration, it could allow
her to set up preferences like favourite movie genres
and location, and either store a cookie or require an
explicit login. While this allows for the best service,
it requires Chrissie’s blog application to handle user
accounts, and users to create and remember an account
as well as potentially replicate the same information on
several websites. It also prevents serendipitous usage
of data, since readers always have to register before
getting the advantage of context-aware data reuse.

• The ideal solution would allows Smoov to use informa-
tion about the reader encoded in open Web standards.
For example, [1] describes an infrastructure that uses
an extension of the HTTP GET command in order to
send a reference to the reader’s FOAF ﬁle [13]. This
FOAF ﬁle would include data about the location or
even the favourite cinema of the reader and can thus
be immediately reused for displaying highly person-
alised information. Other options include connecting
the FOAF data to an OpenID22 account, or includ-
ing pointers to a locally running SPARQL endpoint at
the reader’s machine that would furnish further data,
or even personalised answers, to be displayed on the
site. With such FOAF information available, Smoov

20http://swoogle.umbc.edu/
21http://www.amazon.com
22http://openid.net/

could query an open review system like revyu23 [27]
and display further reviews by the reader’s friends.

Using these extensions does not impose any further costs
on Chrissie, but still reap immediate beneﬁts – for Chrissie
and the readers of her blog – leading to a highly personalised
Web experience. If Smoov cannot ﬁgure out anything about
who is reading the blog, it defaults to Chrissie’s preferences.
2.4 Giving back to the Web

Chrissie and her blog readers clearly beneﬁt from Smoov’s
Web data integration, reuse, and personalisation capabili-
ties. But does the Web itself beneﬁt from Chrissie’s Se-
mantic Web site? What if Chrissie, while giving Smoov
metadata about a movie, would also rate the movie on her
preferred rating scale? If Smoov would export Chrissie’s
movie ratings to the Semantic Web, her rating and review
text would represent a contribution to the (Semantic) Web.
The Semantic Web is built on a decentralised and open
infrastructures that can facilitate data interoperability by
means of standardised taxonomies and ontologies. Such
common vocabularies make it easier to unlock and share
the data between diﬀerent Web pages. There is a great po-
tential for having all sides participate in an open data Web,
and having intelligent services present and adapt data to
the users – such as the plug-in here. Web sites can then
beneﬁt from collecting the review data from many diﬀerent,
heterogeneous sources like Chrissie’s blog. They can display
aggregated reviews, and look out for trends (the blogosphere
typically has more and quicker reviews than the reviews on
most online stores). Machine-understandable ratings make
it much easier to put up pages like Google’s Movie Ratings
page.24 This would provide novel experimental pages like
FilmTrust25 [26] with enough data to immediately produce
meaningful movie recommendations.

3.

INFRASTRUCTURE

The scenario of the previous section is certainly not a pure
Semantic Web application, but involves a number of related
Web technologies, and – maybe most importantly – signif-
icant human contributions. We argue that this paradigm
shift from an overly machine-centred AI view of the Seman-
tic Web is necessary and healthy both for the involved re-
search communities and for the Web as a whole. But this
claim also provokes two kinds of critical reactions:

1. “The scenario is not realistic, since it assumes signif-
icant background infrastructure that is not available
today – the Semantic Web still lacks some crucial tech-
nologies to make this possible.”

2. “The scenario is not a Semantic Web scenario, since it
does not really challenge semantic technologies – you
could as well use XML to transfer data in the described
way.”

We will address these two somewhat complementary cri-
tiques in this and the following section, our claim being that
application scenarios of the described kind are realistic and
still bear complex research challenges.
23http://revyu.com
24http://www.google.com/movies
25http://trust.mindswap.org/FilmTrust/

WWW 2007 / Track: Semantic WebSession: Semantic Web and Web 2.0828In the remainder of this section, we discuss the basic Se-
mantic Web infrastructure that our scenario requires, and
show how it can be built with current semantic technolo-
gies. Focussing on the Semantic Web’s goal of enabling the
sharing and reusing of (meta)data on the Web, the following
(non-exclusive) tasks need to be solved:

Creation. What are the sources of semantic data?
Exchange. How can semantic data be distributed, gath-
ered, and combined?
Reuse. How can semantic data be put to practical use?

The Semantic Web requires a complete implementation
of the above “food chain,” and our imaginary scenario also
assumes respective components and service providers.
3.1 Creation

The Semantic Web uses a (growing) number of machine-
readable data formats that are the basis for semantic tech-
nologies. Any practical (re)use of semantics thus hinges
upon the availability of such data. But in contrast to the
classical Web, semantic data formats are not mere encod-
ings of human-readable multimedia documents, and so it is
usually not obvious how to even present semantic data to
users. So where should this data that humans can hardly
read, not to mention author, actually come from?

An early attempt to answer this was made by the FOAF
project, the idea being that a large number of people author
small amounts of semantic data. In spite of the relative suc-
cess of FOAF, it is hard to claim that such an approach can
really solve the problem of data creation, since the barrier
of authoring OWL/RDF is too high for most Web users.
Tools like FOAF-a-matic26 simplify the creation of FOAF
ﬁles, but publication and update of FOAF ﬁles often remain
tedious manual tasks.

But many web applications are already based on well-
structured data – often maintained in an internal database
in an application-speciﬁc format –, and semantic data for-
mats are suggestive for publishing such pre-existing data.
Encoding such data may need some work, but there are
hardly any technical problems. The approach already works
in speciﬁc domains. For instance, ﬂickr embeds RDF into
HTML pages for publishing available license information,
and all major blogging engines provide (RDF-based) RSS
feeds. Much more existing data, e.g. the millions of avail-
able library catalogue records, could be published in a sim-
ilar way. On the other hand, there are also eﬀorts to sim-
plify the direct authoring of semantic data. Examples of
this include Semantic MediaWiki [33], where semantic data
is edited in a wiki, and the recent “machine tags” in ﬂickr,27
that allow (RDF) namespaces within tags.
Incorporating
the creation of semantic data into the interfaces of existing
applications, most kinds of blogs, forums, online directories,
etc. can easily become semantic data sources as well.
3.2 Exchange

Exchanging existing data at ﬁrst seems to be a simple
task, and it often is in classical Web scenarios. On the
Semantic Web, however, data must also be transformed,
26http://www.ldodds.com/foaf/foaf-a-matic.html
27http://www.flickr.com/groups/api/discuss/
72157594497877875/

merged, and collected to enable later reuse. The most promi-
nent related task is mapping available data to a common ter-
minology/format that can be further processed. Languages
used on the Semantic Web ease the exchange of structural
information, but they do not encode the intended meaning
of such structures. Yet using the data also requires to under-
stand this informal aspect, and to treat it in an application-
speciﬁc way.

One existing solution to this problem is to refer to estab-
lished ontologies. These should consist of a well-speciﬁed vo-
cabulary of URIs, and a machine-processable set of axioms
that describe their interrelationships, speciﬁc constraints, or
connections to other ontologies. Applications that are aware
of a given ontology can easily interpret respective data sets,
and we also made this assumption in our earlier blogging
scenario.

Exchanging data also may suggest further pre-processing
steps. For instance, the Planet blog reader28 aggregates
machine-readable feeds from many blogs, merges the col-
lected news items by date, and supports various additional
ﬁltering functions. Another fully customisable online tool
for processing various kinds of data feeds is Yahoo! pipes,29
cf. Figure 2. The result in each case can again be obtained
in multiple machine-readable formats. We believe that sim-
ilar aggregators will play an important rôle in the emerging
Semantic Web, especially as ontologies become more numer-
ous and ﬁltering methods become more complex.
3.3 Reuse

Creation, publication, and exchange of data are only use-
ful if there are ways of exploiting this information. A large
number of tools currently is exploiting semantic data in one
or the other way, but many of them are used only within a
very limited academic context. There are various tools that
process FOAF or RSS data, which we do not attempt to list
here, but at the moment only RSS readers have really made
the leap to user desktops [54].

Examples of large scale web applications include seman-
tic search engines, such as the Creative Commons Search
engine,30 or Swoogle [20]. These applications are especially
interesting since they provide services beyond mere display
of data, and successfully employ technical solutions for more
complex processing tasks.

Another important use of semantic data is the recombi-
nation of data sources on the Web, creating what is typi-
cally known as mashup. Mashups have already been realised
based on classical HTML data, but each of those imple-
mentations requires signiﬁcant programming eﬀort, is very
sensitive to changes on the source sites, or relies on certain
proprietary APIs. Semantic technologies advertise the use
of common data formats that are universal across applica-
tion domains, and hence greatly facilitate the construction
of mashups. The aforementioned aggregators Planet and
Yahoo! pipes also provide online interfaces that are good
examples of successful semantic mashups.
It is not obvi-
ous how a tool as versatile as Yahoo! pipes could be build
without the use of machine-readable formats that enable
seamless data exchange.

Besides the data available in standardised Semantic Web
formats, there is plenty of data available on the web in well-
28http://www.planetplanet.org/
29http://pipes.yahoo.com/
30http://search.creativecommons.org/

WWW 2007 / Track: Semantic WebSession: Semantic Web and Web 2.0829Figure 2: Yahoo! pipes (http://pipes.yahoo.com/) enables users to create custom mashups, thus successfully
combining modern Web 2.0 interfaces with the advantages of machine-readable data feeds. The screenshot
shows how multiple RSS feeds are aggregated, sorted, and ﬁltered to produce a novel feed.

speciﬁed semantic formats, like iCalendar [19], Atom [41],
vCard [18], hReview [22]. Such standards, especially the set
of Microformats 31, can usually be transformed easily into
the RDF data model and thus allow to be integrated into
the Semantic Web vision, just as the vast amount of data
found in databases do [8].

4. NEXT STEPS

The previous section may give the impression that the
realisation of the Semantic Web is merely a question of im-
plementation and continued user adoption, ﬁnally leading
to what could be described as an elaborate version of RSS.
But we do not intend to reduce the Semantic Web in such
a way, and indeed believe that semantic technologies bear
many further opportunities.

Our scenario meant to show that some of the technologies
can be easily applied – albeit only within a restricted set-
ting where only a few participants are involved in the data
exchange. Thereby, we want to promote the adoption of
semantic technologies in some speciﬁc domains, which we
consider as an important ﬁrst step in realizing the Semantic
Web vision [6]. The merits of Semantic Web technologies
must be proven and be communicated through real-life ap-
plication scenarios. But even in this scenario, and even more
when moving beyond this, both foundational and applied re-
search faces new challenges, as open research questions turn
into key success factors.

In the following, we point out a number of promising tech-
nologies that could become relevant on the Web, but also to
remaining challenges and open research issues that relate to
them. We expect these topics to become highly relevant in
the short-term, but do not intend to make any claims of
comprehensiveness.

31http://microformats.org

4.1 Expressive ontologies

Light-weight ontology languages like RDF often are eas-
ier to handle, both for machines and for humans, than more
complex formalisms like OWL. The impressive beneﬁts that
even simple machine-readable data can bring may lead some
to believe that the Semantic Web will need not much expres-
siveness beyond RDFS. However, more powerful ontology
languages have proven relevant in many application areas,
and are likely to become increasingly important on the Web.
Indeed, complex knowledge often cannot be encoded with-
out further expressivity, as became evident in many practi-
cal uses of semantic technologies. Examples include appli-
cations in medicine (see, e.g., [53]), or natural sciences (see,
e.g., the Halo project32 [25]). But additional expressivity
is desirable even in cases of simple semantic data. On the
one hand, ways of describing facts declaratively are crucial
for querying knowledge bases. On the other hand, ontologi-
cal knowledge can be exploited for query simpliﬁcation and
for formalising constraints, similar to the use of schematic
information in relational databases [14, 40].

Clearly, expressive ontologies bear many challenges, some
of which are also listed below. The majority of those chal-
lenges is actively addressed in current Semantic Web re-
search, but typical Web 2.0 applications may bear additional
requirements for the use of expressive ontologies. For in-
stance, the use of complex ontologies in semantic wikis [50]
requires users to be able to understand and control auto-
matic inferences, supported by adequate software interfaces.
4.2 Scalability and tractability

Scalability and performance is a huge issue for the Seman-
tic Web, as will be apparent when moving beyond a few se-
mantically annotated websites. The sheer amount of data on
the Web is as challenging as the desire for higher expressiv-
32http://www.projecthalo.com/

WWW 2007 / Track: Semantic WebSession: Semantic Web and Web 2.0830ity. On an engineering level, this problem is addressed by in-
creasingly powerful implementations. Classical Web pages,
even if dynamic, often rely on controlled data sources that
allow them to make good use of caching. With data sources
being interconnected and dispersed all over the Semantic
Web, the assumption of controlled data sources breaks, and
caching must be reinvestigated and reimplemented based on
the novel interaction model that arises with dynamic data-
driven websites.

On a more foundational level, the careful design of pow-
erful yet computationally manageable ontology languages
needs to be continued. Recently, this research has lead both
to an extension of the expressiveness of OWL DL [21], and
to the identiﬁcation of a number of much simpler but still
useful ontology languages, such as EL++ [3] or RDFS++
[35].

Investigations of the semantics and complexity of query
languages also are an important contribution (see, e.g., [2]).
On the Semantic Web, queries may also refer to data from
diﬀerent data sources, possibly even physically distributed.
Aggregation of data, and the federation or distribution of
queries are possible ways of addressing these problems.
4.3 Usability

Ease of use of both the user interface and the developer
interface is essential. Many current Semantic Web tools still
require expertise in semantic technologies and Web stan-
dards in order to be used, which can easily repel Web devel-
opers. It is possible – and necessary – to hide the complexity
of the underlying technologies from the users and developers
just as today’s users are often unaware of the intricacies of
XHTML, HTTP, or diﬀerent encoding systems. It is there-
fore necessary to incorporate semantics into applications in
ways that allow intuitive usage, as promoted for instance by
tools like Semantic MediaWiki [33].

Still Semantic Web applications tend to burden people
cognitively with their own internal semantic models and on-
tologies.
Instead, there needs to be more understanding
of the “human-semantics interaction” aspects of how peo-
ple approach semantically rich applications, and ways for
easing people into working with the semantic models under-
lying their software and tools. Unfortunately, there is a real
dearth of work in this area with a few notable exceptions
[7].

One of the strengths of the Semantic Web is its easy ex-
tensibility. You need a vocabulary to describe your collec-
tion of salt and pepper shakers, but can’t ﬁnd one? Go
ahead, create it yourself! But creating a good vocabulary
or ontology is hard, and users may rely on existing ontolo-
gies rather than to create their own. If none of the given
ontologies truly ﬁts the user’s needs, this may reduces the
quality of semantic annotations. Therefore, simple creation
and evaluation of ontologies for the Web will become a much
more practically important issue than it is now. There are
promising results in this ﬁeld of research, e.g. Diligent as a
method [49], and [9] as an AJAX-based application for the
collaborative construction of ontologies.
4.4 Trust and control

A particular challenge for distributed information systems
is to be able to trace the origin of data. On the consumer
side, this allows people to trust into data by trusting into
its source. Content creators, on the other hand, have many

reasons for being interested in tracking the exchange data
that they published. In general, however, there is are few
ways of establishing the trustworthiness of a particular cre-
ator or consumer in an open Web environment. One eﬀect
of this is that HTML meta-tags, though potentially useful
and long established, are basically ignored by most search
engines who cannot ensure that the speciﬁed information is
trustworthy. Yet, humans can well pick reliable data sources
– RSS feeds are an example of such selective use of data.

Provenance can either be established by digital signatures,
as are massively used for signing emails or securing HTTP,
or through a chain of trustworthy content providers that
can be selected by users.
In both cases, it is easy to re-
move data from those trustworthy contexts: consumers can
ﬁnd trustworthy sources, but creators still have no means
of tracking their content. The latter observation has impor-
tant ramiﬁcations. Controlling semantic data becomes very
diﬃcult, and private, conﬁdential, or proprietary informa-
tion can hardly be restricted. This is a known problem on
today’s Web, but the ﬁne granularity of semantic data also
prevents watermarking and similar methods that are cur-
rently used. Of course, any such discussion also includes a
wide range legal aspects that is not being addressed yet.
4.5 Mapping and integration

For the discussed scenario, we assumed that the data be-
ing shared used one agreed-upon ontology that is common
to applications in the domain. Similar domain-speciﬁc on-
tologies have been created for various purposes, examples
including FOAF and SIOC [11], and they might be very
suitable for basic data exchange. But in a true Web setting
heterogeneous or overlapping conceptualisations are bound
to appear. Since the exchange process requires a shared
common understanding of the involved data, diﬀerences in
the ontologies need to be aligned and reconciled. This is
addressed by substantial work in the ﬁeld of ontology align-
ment, see, e.g., [23], [44], and [24]), but further steps are
needed to produce reliable mapping systems. It is also im-
portant to explore how far one the automatic identiﬁcation
of mappings can actually reach, and how semi-automatic
methods could make eﬃcient use of human judgements.

While correct mappings of any origin address the problem
of data exchange, data integration adds some additional re-
quirements. For instance, extensive use of ontologies and
semantic data often requires extensions and modiﬁcations.
Even if it is known in principle how two sources of knowl-
edge should be integrated, they might have extended the
common assumptions in incompatible ways.
In the worst
case, this might lead to logical inconsistency of information
that would need repair [34], in other cases, it might require
at least proper versioning of independently updated seman-
tic data [28]. Both problems are relevant for the creation of
advanced semantic mashups.

Finally, the alignment of instance data is also important.
Most instances are not part of widely adopted ontologies,
but are abundant in applications. There is a need for au-
tomatic fusion of data, including object identiﬁcation and
resolution of conﬂicts among data entries. As opposed to
schema mapping, the large amount of instance data involved
in normal use cases renders manual approaches unmanage-
able. Currently, much eﬀort is devoted to this topic and
promising results have been achieved. Linking Open Data33
33http://esw.w3.org/topic/SweoIG/TaskForces/

WWW 2007 / Track: Semantic WebSession: Semantic Web and Web 2.0831for instance is a Semantic Web community project that aims
to produce more and link existing semantic data sources by
means of equivalence mining and the development of pub-
lishing tools and converters.

5. CONCLUSIONS

The ideas underlying the Semantic Web and the Web 2.0
are often presented as competing visions for the future of
the Web. Both communities have their own assumptions,
cultures, and focal points. However, there is growing reali-
sation that the two ideas complement each other, and that
in fact both communities need elements from the other’s
technologies to overcome their own limitations.

In this paper, we argued that basic web application sce-
narios, such as semantic blogging, are worthwhile goals for
further developing semantic technologies. We advocate a
paradigm shift from an overly machine-centred AI view of
the Semantic Web towards a more user- and community-
centred approach that draws from the insights of Web 2.0.
This does not say that foundational topics are banned from
our vision of tomorrow’s Semantic Web – without expres-
sive ontology languages and the associated technologies and
methodologies, one would quickly arrive at a downgraded se-
mantic web that adds little on top of RSS feeds. Arguably
the latter is a useful ﬁrst step, but it would fail to live up to
the full potential of semantic technologies.

We also think that semantic technologies, in turn, bear
a great potential of providing a robust and extensible ba-
sis for emerging Web 2.0 applications.
Interchange, dis-
tribution, and creative reuse of data can be greatly facili-
tated by the infrastructures that the Semantic Web oﬀers.
Web 2.0 eﬀorts should take the opportunity to embrace those
freely available technologies. Jointly exploiting each other’s
achievements and insights, the two communities can realise
their respective visions of the web – because there’s only one
Web, after all.

6. ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

We want to thank everybody who has engaged in fruit-
ful discussions over the ideas described in this position pa-
per, which includes basically everybody from the Knowledge
Management groups of AIFB and FZI. We want to thank
especially Valentin Zacharias, Tom Heath, and Peter Haase
for their valuable and extensive reviews. Research reported
in this paper was supported by the EU in the IST projects X-
Media (IST-FP6-026978, www.x-media-project.org) and
NeOn (IST-2006-027595, www.neon-project.org). The view
presented in this position paper is the authors’ and not of
the projects as a whole.

7. REFERENCES
[1] A. Ankolekar and D. Vrandečić. Personalizing Web

surﬁng with semantically enriched peronal proﬁles. In
M. Bouzid and N. Henze, editors, Proc. Semantic Web
Personalization Workshop, Budva, Montenegro, June
2006.

[2] M. Arenas, J. A. Perez, and C. Gutierrez. Semantics
and complexity of sparql. In I. Cruz and S. Decker,
editors, Proc. 5th International Semantic Web
Conference (ISWC06), pages 30–43, Athens, GA,
USA, 2006.

CommunityProjects/LinkingOpenData

[3] F. Baader, S. Brandt, and C. Lutz. Pushing the EL
envelope. In Proc. 19th Int. Joint Conf. on Artiﬁcial
Intelligence (IJCAI’05), Edinburgh, UK, 2005.
Morgan-Kaufmann Publishers.

[4] F. Baader, D. Calvanese, D. McGuinness, D. Nardi,

and P. Patel-Schneider, editors. The Description Logic
Handbook: Theory, Implementation and Applications.
Cambridge University Press, 2003.

[5] G. Beged-Dov, D. Brickley, R. Dornfest, I. Davis,

L. Dodds, J. Eisenzopf, D. Galbraith, R. Guha,
K. MacLeod, E. Miller, A. Swartz, and E. van der
Vlist. RDF Site Summary 1.0, 9 December 2000.
Available at
http://web.resource.org/rss/1.0/spec.

[6] T. Berners-Lee, J. Hendler, and O. Lassila. The

Semantic Web. Scientiﬁc American, 5, 2001.
[7] A. Bernstein, E. Kaufmann, A. Göhring, and

C. Kiefer. Querying ontologies: A controlled english
interface for end-users. In Proc. 4th International
Semantic Web Conference (ISWC05), pages 112–126,
November 2005.

[8] C. Bizer and A. Seaborne. D2RQ – treating non-RDF

databases as virtual RDF graphs. In Proc. 3rd
International Semantic Web Conference (ISWC04),
2004.

[9] S. Braun, A. Schmidt, and V. Zacharias. Ontology

maturing with lightweight collaborative ontology
editing tools. In Proc. Workshop on Productive
Knowledge Work: Management and Technological
Challenges (ProKW), 2007.

[10] T. Bray, J. Paoli, and C. M. Sperberg-McQueen.
Extensible markup language (XML) 1.0 (second
edition). W3C Recommendation REC-xml-20001006,
World Wide Web Consortium (W3C), Oct. 2000.
Available at http://www.w3.org/XML/.

[11] J. G. Breslin, A. Harth, U. Boj¯ars, and S. Decker.

Towards semantically-interlinked online communities.
In Proc. 2nd European Semantic Web Conference
(ESWC05), Heraklion, Greece, Proceedings, LNCS
3532, pages 500–514, 2005.

[12] D. Brickley and R. V. Guha. RDF Vocabulary
Description Language 1.0: RDF Schema. W3C
Recommendation, 10 February 2004. Available at
http://www.w3.org/TR/rdf-schema/.

[13] D. Brickley and L. Miller. FOAF vocabulary

speciﬁcation, revision, 2003. Available at
http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/.

[14] A. Cali and M. Kifer. Containment of conjunctive

object meta-queries. In Proc. 32nd Int. Conf. on Very
Large Data Bases (VLDB06), pages 942–952. VLDB
Endowment, 2006.

[15] S. Cayzer. Semantic blogging and decentralized
knowledge management. Communications of the
ACM, 47(12):47–52, Dec. 2004.

[16] S. Cayzer. What next for semantic blogging?

Technical Report HPL-2006-149, Hewlett-Packard
Laboratories, Bristol, UK, Oct. 2006.

[17] Creative Commons. “Some Rights Reserved”: Building

a layer of reasonable copyright.
http://creativecommons.org.

[18] F. Dawson and T. Howes. vcard mime directory

proﬁle. RFC 2426, Internet Engineering Task Force,

WWW 2007 / Track: Semantic WebSession: Semantic Web and Web 2.0832Sept. 1998.

[19] F. Dawson and D. Stenerson. Internet calendaring and

scheduling core object speciﬁcation (icalendar). RFC
2445, Internet Engineering Task Force, Nov. 1998.

[20] L. Ding, T. Finin, A. Joshi, R. Pan, R. S. Cost,
Y. Peng, P. Reddivari, V. Doshi, and J. Sachs.
Swoogle: A search and metadata engine for the
Semantic Web. In Proc. 13th ACM Conf. on
Information and Knowledge Management, pages
58–61, 2004.

[21] B. C. G. (ed.). OWL 1.1 web ontology language,

November 2006. Available at
http://owl1_1.cs.manchester.ac.uk/.

[22] T. C. (ed.). hReview 0.3, 22 February 2006. Available

at http://microformats.org/wiki/hreview.

[23] M. Ehrig and S. Staab. QOM – Quick ontology

mapping. In Proc. 3rd International Semantic Web
Conference (ISWC04), pages 683–697. Springer, 2004.

[24] M. Ehrig and Y. Sure. Ontology mapping – an

integrated approach. In Proc. 1st European Semantic
Web Symposium, volume 3053, pages 76–91. Springer,
2004.

[25] N. Friedland, P. Allen, G. Matthews, M. Witbrock,

D. Baxter, J. Curtis, B. Shepard, P. Miraglia,
J. Angele, S. Staab, E. Mönch, H. Oppermann,
D. Wenke, B. Porter, K. Barker, J. Fan, S. Y. Chaw,
P. Yeh, D. Tecuci, and P. Clark. Project Halo:
Towards a digital Aristotle. AI Magazine, 2004.

[26] J. Golbeck and J. Hendler. FilmTrust: movie

recommendations using trust in web-based social
networks. In Proc. IEEE Consumer Communications
and Networking Conference, 2006.

[27] T. Heath and E. Motta. Reviews and ratings on the

semantic web. In Poster Track, 5th International
Semantic Web Conference (ISWC2006), Athens,
Georgia, USA, 2006.

[28] J. Heﬂin and J. Z. Pan. A model theoretic semantics

for ontology versioning. In Third International
Semantic Web Conference, pages 62–76, Hiroshima,
Japan, 2004. Springer.
[29] U. Hustadt, B. Motik, and U. Sattler. Reducing
SHIQ− description logic to disjunctive datalog
programs. In Proc. of KR2004, pages 152–162. AAAI
Press, 2004.

[30] A. Kalyanpur, B. Parsia, E. Sirin, and J. Hendler.
Debugging unsatisﬁable classes in OWL ontologies.
Journal of Web Semantics, 3, 2005.

[31] D. R. Karger and D. Quan. What would it mean to

blog on the semantic web? In S. A. McIlraith,
D. Plexousakis, and F. van Harmelen, editors, Proc.
3rd International Semantic Web Conference
(ISWC04), Hiroshima, Japan, pages 214–228.
Springer, November 2004.

[32] H. Knublauch, R. W. Fergerson, N. F. Noy, and M. A.

Musen. The Protégé OWL plugin: An open
development environment for Semantic Web
applications. In Proc. 3rd International Semantic Web
Conference (ISWC04. Springer, 2004.

[33] M. Krötzsch, D. Vrandečić, and M. Völkel. Semantic

mediawiki. In I. Cruz and S. Decker, editors, Proc. 5th
International Semantic Web Conference (ISWC06),
pages 935–942, Athens, GA, USA, 2006.

[34] J. Lam, J. Z. Pan, D. Sleeman, and W. Vasconcelos. A

ﬁne-grained approach to resolving unsatisﬁable
ontologies. In Proc. of the 2006 IEEE/WIC/ACM
International Conference on Web Intelligence
(WI-2006), 2006.

[35] O. Lassila. Identity crisis and serendipity, May 2006.

Available at http://www.lassila.org/publications/
2006/IdentityCrisisAndSerendipity.pdf.

[36] A. Maedche, B. Motik, and L. Stojanovic. Managing
multiple and distributed ontologies in the Semantic
Web. VLDB Journal, 12(4):286–302, 2003.

[37] F. Manola and E. Miller. Resource Description

Framework (RDF) primer. W3C Recommendation, 10
February 2004. Available at
http://www.w3.org/TR/rdf-primer/.

[38] C. Marlow, M. Naaman, d. boyd, and M. Davis.
HT06, tagging paper, taxonomy, ﬂickr, academic
article, to read. In Proc. 17th Conf. on Hypertext and
Hypermedia (HYPERTEXT’06), pages 31–40, 2006.
[39] P. Mika. Ontologies are us: A uniﬁed model of social

networks and semantics. In Proc. 4th International
Semantic Web Conferences (ISWC05), pages 522–536,
2005.

[40] B. Motik, I. Horrocks, and U. Sattler. Integrating
description logics and relational databases, Dec 6,
2006. Technical Report, University of Manchester, UK.

[41] M. Nottingham and R. Sayre. The atom syndication
format. RFC 4287, Internet Engineering Task Force,
Dec. 2005.

[42] T. O’Reilly. What is Web 2.0 – design patterns and
business models for the next generation of software,
2005. Available at
http://www.oreillynet.com/pub/a/oreilly/tim/
news/2005/09/30/what-is-web-20.html.

[43] E. Oren, R. Delbru, and S. Decker. Extending faceted

navigation for rdf data. In I. Cruz and S. Decker,
editors, Proc. 5th International Semantic Web
Conference (ISWC06), pages 559–572, 2006.

[44] R. Pan, Z. Ding, Y. Yu, and Y. Peng. A Bayesian

network approach to ontology mapping. In Proc. 4th
International Semantic Web Conference (ISWC05),
2005.

[45] A. Seaborne and E. Prud’hommeaux. SPARQL query
language for RDF. Technical Report http://www.w3.
org/TR/2006/CR-rdf-sparql-query-20060406/,
W3C, April 2006.

[46] J. Seidenberg and A. Rector. Web ontology

segmentation: Analysis, classiﬁcation and use. In
Proc. 15th Int. Conf. on World Wide Web (WWW
2006), Edinburgh, Scotland, May 23–26, 2006.

[47] M. K. Smith, C. Welty, and D. McGuinness. OWL

Web Ontology Language Guide, 2004. W3C
Recommendation 10 February 2004, available at
http://www.w3.org/TR/owl-guide/.

[48] Y. Sure, S. Staab, and R. Studer. On-to-knowledge
methodology. In S. Staab and R. S. (eds.), editors,
Handbook on Ontologies, Series on Handbooks in
Information Systems, chapter 6, pages 117–132.
Springer, 2003.

[49] C. Tempich, H. S. Pinto, Y. Sure, and S. Staab. An

argumentation ontology for distributed,
loosely-controlled and evolving engineering processes

WWW 2007 / Track: Semantic WebSession: Semantic Web and Web 2.0833[53] K. Wolstencroft, P. Lord, L. Tabernero, A. Brass, and

R. Stevens. Using ontology reasoning to classify
protein phosphatases. 8th Annual Bio-Ontologies
Meeting 2005, 24, 2005.

[54] V. Zacharias and M. Sibler. Semantic announcement

sharing. In Proc. Fachgruppentreﬀen
Wissensmanagement, 2004.

of ontologies (DILIGENT). In Proc. 2nd European
Semantic Web Conference (ESWC05), LNCS 3532,
pages 241–256. Springer, 2005.

[50] D. Vrandečić and M. Krötzsch. Reusing ontological

background knowledge in semantic wikis. In
Proceedings of 1st Workshop “From Wiki to
Semantics” (SemWiki’06), 2006.

[51] D. Vrandečić, H. S. Pinto, Y. Sure, and C. Tempich.

The DILIGENT knowledge processes. Journal of
Knowledge Management, 9(5):85–96, Oct 2005.

[52] M. Völkel, M. Krötzsch, D. Vrandečić, H. Haller, and

R. Studer. Semantic Wikipedia. In Proc. 15th Int.
Conf. on World Wide Web (WWW 2006), Edinburgh,
Scotland, May 23–26, 2006. Available at
http://www.aifb.uni-karlsruhe.de/WBS/hha/
papers/SemanticWikipedia.pdf.

WWW 2007 / Track: Semantic WebSession: Semantic Web and Web 2.0834