An Effective Semantic Search Technique using Ontology

Jihyun Lee

Korea Advanced Institute of

Science and Technology

Yuseong-gu, Guseong-dong
Daejeon, Republic of Korea,
hyunlee@islab.kaist.ac.kr

305-701

Jun-Ki Min

Korea University of

Technology and Education

Byeongcheon-myeon

Chungnam, Republic of Korea,

330-708

jkmin@kut.ac.kr

Chin-Wan Chung

Korea Advanced Institute of

Science and Technology

Yuseong-gu, Guseong-dong
Daejeon, Republic of Korea,
chungcw@islab.kaist.ac.kr

305-701

ABSTRACT
In this paper, we present a semantic search technique considering
the type of desired Web resources and the semantic relationships
between the resources and the query keywords in the ontology. In
order to effectively retrieve the most relevant top-k resources, we
propose a novel ranking model. To do this, we devise a measure to
determine the weight of the semantic relationship. In addition, we
consider the number of meaningful semantic relationships between
a resource and keywords, the coverage of keywords, and the distin-
guishability of keywords. Through experiments using real datasets,
we observe that our ranking model provides more accurate seman-
tic search results compared to existing ranking models.
Categories and Subject Descriptors: H.3.3 [Information Systems]:
Information Search and Retrieval
General Terms: Algorithms, Experimentation, Measurement
Keywords: Semantic Search, Ranking, Semantic Relationship, On-
tology, Semantic Web
1.

INTRODUCTION

It is common that the current keyword-based search misses highly
relevant pages and returns a lot of irrelevant pages for user requests,
since the keyword-based search is ignorant of the type of resources
a user wants to get and the semantic relationships between the re-
sources and keywords.

In order to effectively retrieve the most relevant top-k resources
in searching in the Semantic Web, [3, 5] propose ranking models
using the ontology which presents the meaning of resources and
the relationships among the resources. These works determine the
relevance based on the link analysis where the amount of relation-
ships and the speciﬁcity of the relationships are considered, but it
is insufﬁcient for precise ranking. The ranking model in [5] does
not consider the diversity of semantic relationships. The work in [3]
depends on domain experts to determine the weights of all relation-
ships in the instance level. Also, the query consisting of multiple
keywords with different importance is not effectively handled.

In this paper, we propose an effective semantic search technique
considering the diversity of semantic relationships. We propose a
measure for weighting a semantic relationship. Based on this, we
suggest a novel ranking model.
2. PRELIMINARIES

In this section, we present some deﬁnitions for our work.
Deﬁnition 1. (Schema) Schema S is deﬁned as <C, D, P>. C
is the set of classes, D is the set of data types, and P is the set

Copyright is held by the author/owner(s).
WWW 2009, April 20–24, 2009, Madrid, Spain.
ACM 978-1-60558-487-4/09/04.

Figure 1: An example of ontology

of properties. For d ∈ C, r ∈ C ∪ D, there can be a property
p(d, r) ∈ P . For each property p(d, r) ∈ P , d is the domain and r
is the range of p. p−1(r, d) is the inverse property of p(d, r).

Deﬁnition 2. (Instance Graph) An instance conﬁned to a schema
S = <C, D, P> is deﬁned as a directed graph G = <V, E>. V is
the set of resources. [c] indicates the set of instances of c ∈ C ∪ D.
For each v ∈ V, v ∈ [c] if v.type = c. E is the set of property in-
stances. [p(d, r)] denotes the set of instances of p(d, r) ∈ P . For
each e(vi, vj) ∈ E, e(vi, vj) ∈ [p(d, r)] if e = p, vi ∈ [d] and vj ∈
[r]. vi is the subject and vj is the object of e.

Deﬁnition 3. (Semantic Path) A semantic path sp is a sequence
of properties p1(d1,r1) ... pm(dm, rm) in a schema S = <C, D, P>
where pi(di, ri) ∈ P and ri and di+1 are the same class or have
the same ancestor class (excluding the root) in the class hierarchy.
An instance graph G conﬁned to schema S can include matches
of a semantic path in S. A match of the semantic path is a se-
quence of instances of properties, which is called semantic path
instance. For example, in Figure 1, writtenBy−1(Professor, Publica-
tion) hasTitle(Publication, String) is a semantic path, and writtenBy−1
(prof1, pub1) hasTitle(pub1,‘top-k...Web’) is a semantic path instance of
the semantic path.

Deﬁnition 4. (Semantic Search) Given an instance graph G,
the semantic search is to ﬁnd an answer A for query Q = <T, K>.
For each resource a ∈ A, there should be at least one semantic path
instance from resource a to data value s in G where a ∈ [T ] and
value s contains k ∈ K. IP (a, k) denotes the set of such semantic
path instances from a to s including keyword k.
3. WEIGHTING FOR SEMANTIC PATH

A semantic path consists of one or more properties. Therefore, in
order to measure the weight of a semantic path, we should be able
to determine the weight of each property in the semantic path. The
weight of a property is determined according to (1) the amount of
information contained in the property, and (2) the characterizability
between domain and range of the property.

In the information theory, the information content of an event
x can be quantiﬁed by the occurrence probability of x. As x oc-
curs rarely, x has more information. Based on this, the amount of
information contained in a property p(d, r) is computed by

I(p(d, r)) = − log2 pr(p(d, r))

(1)
where pr(p(d, r)) is the probability that a resource is a subject of
the property p(d, r) in an instance graph.

StudentProfessorPersonPublicationTopicwrittenByhasTitleinterestedIncitesubClassOfpropertygeneral propertyclassStringdata typehasNameprof1pub1topic1pub3‘Web’‘top-k …Web’‘top-k ...RDB’interestedInwrittenByhasTitlehasTitlecitehasTitletypetypetypetypeclassinstancepropertyinstancedatavalue[Schema][Schema][Instance Graph][Instance Graph]WWW 2009 MADRID!Poster Sessions: Wednesday, April 22, 20091057In the information theory, the amount of information that one
random variable contains about another random variable is mea-
sured by Mutual Information [1]. To measure the characterizability
between the domain and the range, we adapt the mutual informa-
tion. The mutual information between the domain d and the range
r for a property p(d, r) is computed by

(cid:88)

(cid:88)

o∈r

s∈d

M I(p(d, r)) =

pr(s, o) · log2(

pr(s, o)

pr(s)pr(o)

)

(2)

where the sample space is [p(d, r)], pr(s) is the probability that
e ∈ [p(d, r)] has s as its subject and pr(o) is the probability that
e ∈ [p(d, r)] has o as its object. Also, pr(s, o) is the probability
that e ∈ [p(d, r)] has s and o as its subject and object at the same
time.

By using Equation (1) and (2), we can compute the weight of a

property p(d, r) as follows:

w(p(d, r)) = α · I(p(d, r)) + β · M I(p(d, r))

(3)
where 0 < α, β < 1 and I and MI are normalized to be in the same
range [0, 1].

As the length of a semantic path gets longer, the relevance be-
tween the source and the destination decreases. Thus, considering
the loss of the relevance due to the growing of the length of a se-
mantic path, the weight of the semantic path sp is computed as
follows:

(cid:161) (cid:89)

(cid:162) · δlength(sp)−1

w(p(d, r))

W (sp) =

(4)

p(d,r)∈sp

where length(sp) indicates the number of properties in sp, and δ
is an attenuation parameter which is tunable from 0 to 1.
4. RANKING FOR SEMANTIC SEARCH

three relevance criteria are considered.

(cid:80)

ip∈IP (a,ki) W (ip).

In the novel ranking model proposed in this paper, the following
• The number of meaningful semantic path instances: We
regard resources which have many meaningful semantic path
instances directed to keywords as more relevant resources.
The meaningfulness of the semantic path instance is repre-
sented by the weight of the semantic path obtained by Equa-
tion (4). The relevance of a resource a for a keyword ki is
computed by R(a, ki) =
• The coverage of keywords: A user prefers results covering
all keywords. To reﬂect this preference, we apply the ex-
tended boolean model [4] to our ranking model. A resource
is mapped to a point in an n-dimensional space [0, 1]n where
n is the number of keywords. Each dimension represents the
relevance of a resource to the corresponding keyword. The
relevance of a resource a is in inverse proportion to the dis-
tance from the ideal position [1, ..., 1] to the point of a.
• The distinguishability of keyword: A resource having se-
mantic paths to distinguishable keywords is more relevant
than a resource having semantic paths to undistinguishable
keywords. The distinguishability of keyword ki, D(ki), is
the inverse of the ratio of data values containing ki to entire
data values in the instance graph.

Based on the above mentioned three factors, the relevance score

of resource a for keywords K is computed by
Rank(a, K) = 1 − [

(cid:80)
1≤i≤|K|(D(ki) · (1 − N R(a, ki)))p

1
p

]

(5)

(cid:80)

1≤i≤|K| D(ki)p

First, N R(a, ki) is the normalized R(a, ki) in the range [0, 1],
which reﬂects the the number of meaningful semantic path instances.
Second, the Lp-norm distance form of the above model reﬂects the
coverage of keywords, and p (≥ 1) controls the strength of AND-
semantics among keywords. Finally, the distinguishability of key-
word, D(ki), is utilized as the weight of a keyword reﬂecting the
importance of the keyword in the model.

Figure 2: The accuracy for top-k results (k = 10 and 20)
5. SEMANTIC SEARCH PROCESSING

Our semantic search for query < T, K > is performed accord-
ing to the following four procedures: 1) Extract the set of semantic
paths SP from T to K in a schema. 2) Find the set of resources R
each of which reaches some keywords in K through SP in an in-
stance graph. 3) For each resource ri ∈ R, compute Rank(ri, K).
4) Provide ri in the descending order of Rank(ri, K).
6. EXPERIMENTS

In the experiments, we evaluate the accuracy of our ranking model,
Semantic Search Rank (SSR ), in comparison with existing methods
RQR [5] and HAS [3]. We use two kinds of ontologies from two real
datasets: DBLP (http://dblp.uni-trier.de/xml/) and IMDB (http://www.im-
db.com/interface). Figure 2 shows the accuracy of three ranking
models for ﬁve representative top-k queries over each ontology. We
use F-measure (= 2∗precision∗recall
precision+recall ) [2] to measure the accuracy.
Also, it includes the average of the accuracy for 20 queries over
DBLP ontology (i.e,. AVG20) and 15 queries over IMDB ontology
(i.e., AVG15). The tunable parameters of SSR in our experiments
are set as follows: α = 0.2 and β = 0.8 in Equation (3), δ = 0.6 in
Equation (4), and p = 3 in Equation (5). As we can observe from the
experimental results, SSR outperforms the existing ranking models
in general.
7. CONCLUSION

In this paper, for an effective semantic search, we proposed a new
ranking model considering the diversity of semantic relationships
and the coverage of keywords with various importance to determine
the relevance. The experimental results showed that the accuracy
of our new ranking model was better than those of other raking
models using the ontology.
Acknowledgment
This research was supported by the Ministry of Knowledge Econ-
omy, Korea, under the Information Technology Research Center
support program supervised by the Institute of Information Tech-
nology Advancement. (grant number IITA-2008-C1090-0801-0031)
8. REFERENCES
[1] T. M. Cover. Elements of Information Theory. John Wiley and Sons,

INC., New York, NY, USA, 1991.

[2] C. D. Manning, P. Raghavan, and H. Schutze. Introduction to

Information Retrieval. Cambridge University Press, 2008.

[3] C. Rocha, D. Schwabe, and M. P. de Aragao. A Hybrid Approach for

Searching in the Semantic Web. In Proc. of WWW, pages 374–383,
May 2004.

[4] G. Salton, E. A. Fox, and H. Wu. Extended Boolean Information

Retrieval. Communications of ACM, 26(12):1022–1036, December
1983.

[5] N. Stojanovic, R. Studer, and K. Stojanovic. An Approach for the
Ranking of Query Results in the Semantic Web. In Proc. of ISWC,
pages 500–516, October 2003.

00.10.20.30.40.50.60.70.80.91DQ1DQ2DQ3DQ4DQ5AVG20DQ1DQ2DQ3DQ4DQ5AVG20IQ1IQ2IQ3IQ4IQ5AVG15IQ1IQ2IQ3IQ4IQ5AVG15top-10top-20top-10top-20DBLPIMDBAccuracy (F)ROAHASSSRWWW 2009 MADRID!Poster Sessions: Wednesday, April 22, 20091058