Social Search and Discovery Using a Uniﬁed Approach

Einat Amitay, David Carmel, Nadav Har’El, Shila Ofek-Koifman,

Aya Soffer, Sivan Yogev, Nadav Golbandi

{einat,carmel,nyh,shila,ayas,sivany}@il.ibm.com, nadav.golbandi@gmail.com

IBM Research Lab in Haifa

Haifa 31905, Israel

ABSTRACT
We explore new ways of improving a search engine using
data from Web 2.0 applications such as blogs and social
bookmarks. This data contains entities such as documents,
people and tags, and relationships between them. We pro-
pose a simple yet eﬀective method, based on faceted search,
that treats all entities in a uniﬁed manner: returning all
of them (documents, people and tags) on every search, and
allowing all of them to be used as search terms. We de-
scribe an implementation of such a social search engine on
the intranet of a large enterprise, and present large-scale
experiments which verify the validity of our approach.

Categories and Subject Descriptors: H.3.3 [Informa-
tion storage and retrieval]: Information search and retrieval

General Terms: Algorithms

Keywords: social search, faceted search, enterprise search

1.

INTRODUCTION

Traditionally, building a Web site took considerable eﬀort
and expertise, so most Web users only consumed informa-
tion, not produced it. In recent years, however, the tide has
turned to letting ordinary users produce information and
publish it to their peers. Services such as blogs, forums,
wikis, collaborative bookmarking, and others have become
common, and collectively called Web 2.0 applications.

The social information in these sources goes beyond just
text documents. There are two additional important enti-
ties, people and tags, and relationships between the three
types of entities. For example, a person might be related
to a document as a writer, commenter, or a tagger. Addi-
tionally, users add metadata to documents, by bookmarking
them, commenting on them, rating them, and so on.

The goal of a social search engine, is to use the social in-
formation to improve the user’s search experience over reg-
ular full-text search. One way of improving search is to im-
prove the relevance of document results [1, 5, 4]: tags and
comments supply more text that can be considered during
search, and important documents can be recognized by the
amount of user activity around them (such as the number
of people who bookmarked them or commented on them).

But using the social information, we want to do more than
just return better documents. We would like to treat all
three entity types, documents, people and tags, in a uniﬁed

Copyright is held by the author/owner(s).
WWW 2009, April 20–24, 2009, Madrid, Spain.
ACM 978-1-60558-487-4/09/04.

manner.Related people and tags, not just documents, will
be returned for every query. People and tags can also be
used as query terms.

This uniﬁed search enables the searcher to get a wider
view on the topic, to look deeper into interesting people that
are related to the topic and to understand the topic better
as described by the tag cloud. The initial search results can
be viewed as an entry point to a topic, enabling the user to
go deeper according to his interests, and explore a web of
entities and relationships between those entities, around his
topic of interest.

Our uniﬁed search solution uses the enhanced faceted search

engine [2]. Basically, a person is highly related to the query
if he is highly related to many documents which are each
highly relevant to the query. Faceted search ﬁrst scores the
relevant documents, and then sums each document’s contri-
bution to its related entities (this contribution is the multi-
plication of the strength of the document-entity relationship,
with the relevance of the document to the query).

In this work, we present a social search engine we devel-
oped for enterprise search (search in the intranet of an orga-
nization), and deployed in IBM. Social search is particularly
suited to enterprise search: It aims to increase the notori-
ously low precision and recall of traditional IR techniques on
enterprise data; The user-supplied social information can be
trusted; Person identities in the enterprise are more mean-
ingful and easier to correlate across diﬀerent applications.

We will also present extensive evaluations to show that
the social information signiﬁcantly improves search precision
and that the related people and tags found on each search
(in addition to the relevant documents) are indeed relevant.

2. THE SOCIAL SEARCH APPLICATION
We implemented a social search engine based on social
information from IBM’s intranet. From the internal Web
2.0 services in IBM, we chose the currently most used ones:
Dogear, a collaborative bookmarking service used to book-
mark and tag pages both within and outside the intranet;
and BlogCentral, a blog service allowing all IBM employees
to manage blogs in the intranet. We collected data from
15,779 employees assigning 337,345 bookmarks to 214,633
pages and writing 67,564 blog threads.

The content we indexed for a bookmarked page contained
its title and the users’ descriptions and tags as provided by
Dogear (the actual content of the page was not available).
For blogs, the indexed document was a blog thread, contain-
ing the blog entry, comments, and tags. For each person, we
had a document containing the person’s directory informa-

WWW 2009 MADRID!Poster Sessions: Friday, April 24, 20091211The precision scores for our systems were NDCG(15)=0.70,
p@1=0.76, p@5=0.70, p@10=0.67. These are very high lev-
els of precision, especially when compared to the state-of-
the-art enterprise search engine deployed in IBM, whose
precision we measured to be much lower (NDCG(15)=0.48,
p@1=0.44, p@5=0.4, p@10=0.38).

Our second evaluation, that of the quality of the related
people results, could not be done using the same standard
technique. This is because the judges found it virtually im-
possible to decide whether a person whom they didn’t know
was relevant to a given query. Rather, we had to ask the per-
son himself whether he considers himself relevant: For each
query we took the top 100 people. To each person related to
any of the queries we sent an email with a list of the queries
to which the system believed him related, mixed with other
queries selected randomly. We asked each person to rate on
a Likert scale of 1 to 5 how relevant they think each query
is to them. 612 people from 116 IBM locations replied to
our request with their rating. We measured the NDCG of
the related user list using the 1-5 scale of user feedback as
diﬀerent relevance levels. The results show a high level of
agreement between the retrieved people and the system’s
ranking: average NDCG(10)=0.77, NDCG(30)=0.74.

Finally, our third evaluation measured whether tags re-
trieved by the social search system are indeed related to the
queries. The evaluation was done using Normalized Google
Distance [3], which measures the similarity of meaning be-
tween terms, based on the number of hits returned by a
search engine. For each query we found the list of related
tags returned by our system. For each query-tag pair, we
performed three queries in IBM’s enterprise search engine:
a) the query alone, b) the tag alone and c) the query and
tag together. The number of results for each of the queries
along with the total number of documents in the search in-
dex deﬁnes the NGD between the query and the tag. NGD
scores are in the range [0,1], which we translated to discrete
relevance levels for the purpose of NDCG calculations. The
NDCG of the top k tags shows high agreement between the
relevance level of retrieved tags with the system’s ranking:
NDCG(10)=0.681, NDCG(30)=0.745, NDCG(50)=0.777.

To summarize, this work describes a social search solu-
tion using a uniﬁed approach in which all system entities are
searchable and retrievable. Our results reveal that related
users and tags seems to be very valuable, as complementary
facets to regular search results. Moreover, user comments
and tags gathered from Web 2.0 applications are highly valu-
able in identifying high quality content in the corpus.

4. REFERENCES
[1] S. Bao, G. Xue, X. Wu, Y. Yu, B. Fei, and Z. Su.

Optimizing web search using social annotations. In WWW,
pages 501–510, 2007.

[2] O. Ben-Yitzhak, N. Golbandi, N. Har’El, R. Lempel,

A. Neumann, S. Ofek-Koifman, D. Sheinwald, E. Shekita,
B. Sznajder, and S. Yogev. Beyond basic faceted search. In
WSDM, 2008.

[3] R. Cilibrasi and P. M. B. Vit´anyi. Automatic meaning
discovery using google. In Kolmogorov Complexity and
Applications, 2006.

[4] P. A. Dmitriev, N. Eiron, M. Fontoura, and E. Shekita.
Using annotations in enterprise search. In WWW, pages
811–817, 2006.

[5] P. Heymann, G. Koutrika, and H. Garcia-Molina. Can

social bookmarks improve web search. In WSDM, 2008.

Figure 1: The social search application.

tion (such as name, title, and group). Finally, people were
connected, as facets, to the pages they bookmarked, and to
their blog entries (as an author or as a commenter). Tags
were connected as facets to their related documents.

A static-score (boost) was given to each document based
on the amount of activity around it.
In essence, a page
which was bookmarked by many people, or a blog entry
that was heavily commented or rated, is more likely to be a
good search result than a document in which hardly anyone
expressed interest. Our evaluation showed that this boosting
signiﬁcantly increased the document search precision.

The social search Web application, codenamed Cow Search,
was made available to all users of IBM’s intranet. As ex-
plained above, the application enables searching with any of
the supported entity types (terms, people, tags), or a mix-
ture thereof, as queries. Using the faceted search library,
three ranked result lists are generated: documents (book-
marked pages, blog threads, and directory entries), related
people, and related tags. Tags are shown in a tag cloud (a
tag’s size is determined by its score) and people are shown
as a ranked list.

Figure 1 shows a screenshot of the application, given the
query “openID”. On the left (marked by 4) we see the most
relevant documents — a mix of blogs, Web pages and per-
sonal proﬁles. On the right (1) is the list of related people.
The related-tags cloud is shown in (2). (3) shows some addi-
tional facets, which aid navigation within the search results.

3. EVALUATION

A signiﬁcant part of this research was evaluating the eﬀec-
tiveness of social search in the enterprise. Our uniﬁed search
system returns three result lists for each query: documents,
people and tags. Therefore, to evaluate the quality of our
system we needed to evaluate the quality of all three lists.

The quality of document results was evaluated using the
standard IR evaluation methodology: We picked 50 real
users’ queries, and ran them on our search engine and IBM’s
default one. We took the top 30 documents returned for each
search, and asked human evaluators to examine each result
and judge its relevance to the query with three relevance
levels (not relevant, marginally relevant or highly relevant),
without knowing where the result came from. These judg-
ments were then compared against our system’s result set
using the NDCG (Normalized Discounted Cumulative Gain)
and and p@k (precision at top k) measures for each query,
and ﬁnally averaged over all 50 queries.

WWW 2009 MADRID!Poster Sessions: Friday, April 24, 20091212