Collaborative ICT for Indian Business Clusters

Soumya Roy

Motorola India Research Labs

Bangalore, India

roysoumya@gmail.com

Shantanu Biswas

Motorola India Research Labs

Bangalore, India

shantanu.biswas@gmail.com

ABSTRACT
Indian business clusters have contributed immensely to the
country’s industrial output, poverty alleviation and employ-
ment generation. However, with recent globalization these
clusters can loose out to international competitors if they
do not continuously innovate and take advantage of the new
opportunities that are available through economic liberal-
ization. In this paper, we discuss how information and com-
munication technologies (ICT) can help in improving the
productivity and growth of these clusters.

Categories and Subject Descriptors
K.4.3 [Computers and Society]: Organizational Im-
pact – Automation, Computer supported Collaborative work,
Employment

General Terms
Management, Design, Economics, Human Factors
Keywords
SME clusters, India, Emerging markets, ICT

1.

INTRODUCTION

Clustering of small ﬁrms is much sought-after in promot-
ing the growth of MSMEs 1 in developing and developed
world [1]. MSMEs have employees ranging from 5 to about
500. Individual ﬁrms because of small size cannot achieve
economies of scale in production, advertising and sales, which
are possible for large enterprises. However, the individual
ﬁrms in a cluster can succeed by closely collaborating with
other small ﬁrms of the same industrial sector and located
in the same geographical area. At the cluster level, the en-
terprises can share orders and subcontract parts of the pro-
duction where needs cannot be supported individually. The
biggest success stories of clusters have been from Italy [2],
where the small ﬁrms are leading exporters of high-quality
goods. In developing countries like India, the barriers of en-
try for large ﬁrms is high because of several extraneous fac-
tors like limited resources, government policies, etc. There-
fore, the clusters of small ﬁrms can be the perfect engines
for industrial growth.

1MSME: Micro, Small and Medium Scale Enterprises. According
to Government of India, micro enterprises have investment up
to $22K, small scale enterprises have investment of $22K-$220K,
while the medium-scale enterprises have investment of $220K-$2.2
million.

Copyright is held by the author/owner(s).
WWW 2007, May 8–12, 2007, Banff, Alberta, Canada.
ACM 978-1-59593-654-7/07/0005.

No of Clusters
No Of Units
Manufactured Exports
from India

2042
1.5 million (avg: 700/cluster)
60%

Table 1: Impact of SME clusters on Indian Economy

2.

INDIAN CLUSTERS: CURRENT STATUS
Clustering is a known phenomenon in Indian context and
has played a signiﬁcant role in the nation’s industrial growth
and diversiﬁcation. In terms of employment generation, the
business clusters are just second to agriculture. The impact
of SME clusters on India’s economy has been tremendous
as shown in Table 2. One very illustrative cluster [1] is
Tiruppur cluster of Tamil Nadu. This cluster has around
7000 SMEs and contribute to 80% of the country’s knitwear
exports.

Nevertheless, despite these striking ﬁgures, most Indian
clusters are not performing to their full potential [3]. Based
on case studies of many clusters, main reason for underper-
formance is lack of co-operation among the cluster-actors.
Multiple factors have led to this problem: (a) informal com-
munication (lack of formal and legal framework for joint
operations leads to mistrust) (b) lack of understanding of
the beneﬁts of simultaneous competition and co-operation
(c) lack of knowledge sharing (d) fear of loosing out in com-
petition (e) lack of eﬀort in developing collective goods and
common activities. Only recently, through the intervention
of external support institutions like UNIDO, SIDBI, SIDO
etc, there have been strong cluster-development initiatives
to forge strong intra-cluster network and establish external
network linkages. ICT can signiﬁcantly complement cluster-
growth initiatives by formalizing cluster operations and re-
ducing transaction costs for common activities. However, till
now, not much attention has been paid to understand the
potential utility of ICT in achieving these. Therefore, we
feel that this is the opportune moment to take a look at the
potential merits of ICT adoption and investigate whether a
fresh approach is needed to build solutions speciﬁc for de-
veloping regions like India.

ICT adoption by the Indian clusters is extremely low. The
industry estimates that the ICT adoption among small busi-
ness in India is less than 30%, and if the IT ﬁrms in the SME
segment are not considered, the number will be signiﬁcantly
less. For example, in Karnataka, the IT penetration is less
than 1% among the 700,000 small scale manufacturing ﬁrms.
The main reasons for low adoption are:

WWW 2007 / Poster PaperTopic: Developing Regions11151. Reluctance to adopt technology : The ﬁrst-generation

small ﬁrm owners are not technology savvy and are ex-
tremely apprehensive to adopt new technology.

2. High cost of enterprise solutions and unsuitabil-
ity for Indian markets: Current IT solutions from
multi-national vendors are mainly stripped down ver-
sions of the solutions of the developed world and do not
satisfy the speciﬁc requirements of Indian business.

3. Low level of telecom density, especially in rural
and semi-urban areas: Many clusters are located in
semi-urban areas or rural areas and therefore, cannot
avail the beneﬁts that communication can bring in.
The telecom operators do not ﬁnd it proﬁtable to run
business in these areas.

4. Lack of funds: The small ﬁrms of India have signif-
icantly less funds compared to their counterparts of
the western world and therefore, they cannot adopt
any readily-available solution used in the developed
nations.

3. BELLARY CLUSTER: A CASE STUDY

To understand the cluster requirements, we did a ﬁeld
study of Bellary Jeans cluster,
located in north of Kar-
nataka, India. Bellary consists of 800 small ﬁrms manu-
facturing jeans, which cater to the lower-middle market seg-
ment of South India. The merchant manufacturers buy fab-
ric from local and Mumbai dealers, divide the jeans-making
process into eight to ten operations (e.g., sewing, washing,
etc.) with each operation being outsourced to small ﬁrms,
and package the ﬁnal products for sale. Fig. 1 describes the
supply chain of the Bellary Jeans cluster [1]. This has been
traditionally a very conservative cluster and suﬀers from
multiple deﬁciencies: (a) lack of strong customer-supplier re-
lationship (b) low quality (c) lack of planning, (d) high lead
time (e) informal practices. However, recently the business
owners, due to the opportunities of doing business with es-
tablished garment retailers and increasing competition from
China, Bangladesh, etc, feel the need to address these is-
sues through co-operation, public-private participation and
formal linkages .

Figure 1: Supply Chain at Bellary Jeans Cluster

We also found that the usage of computer is very limited
and the solutions used are only stand-alone accounting soft-
ware. At present, the orders are procured informally and in
an ad-hoc manner. This aﬀects the productivity and growth

of the cluster immensely. There is a need for ubiquitous con-
nectivity and formal integration of operations to improve the
supply chain operations of the cluster. IT solutions like col-
laborative commerce can help the enterprises in the cluster
to integrate processes and form an eﬀective digital ecosystem
[4]. The challenge is to build a cost-eﬀective ICT solution,
which can be widely aﬀordable and easily deployable within
the cluster. Connectivity needs can be supported by build-
ing an operator-less collaborative network (Fig. 2), in which
the cost of deployment can be largely reduced by sharing
expensive resources like spectrum, networking equipments,
computing resources, storage, etc. Enabling technologies
should also facilitate distributed management, decentralized
ownership and chaotic deployments.

SSE: Small Scale Enterprise
MSE: Medium Scale Enterprise
MR: Mesh Router

client 4

SSE2

MSE2

SSE3

MSE3

client 3

MR2

MR1

SSE 1

client 2

INTERNET

MSE1

client 1

MR3

MSE4

MR4

client 5

SSE4

client 6

Figure 2: Operator-less Collaborative Network

4. CONCLUSION

Here, we have brought into focus the importance of pro-
viding ICT solutions to the Indian business clusters. Cur-
rently, there exists a digital divide between the small ﬁrms
of India and corresponding ﬁrms of the western world. Cost-
eﬀective customized solutions are needed to suit the speciﬁc
needs of small ﬁrms in these clusters. Building such solu-
tions needs knowledge from several disciplines like communi-
cations, networking, economics, social science and electronic
commerce.

5. ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

We thank our colleague Sarita Seshagiri for her help dur-

ing the ﬁeld study.

6. REFERENCES
[1] United nations industrial development organization

(unido). In www.smeclusters.org.

[2] P. Bianchi, L. M. Miller, and S. Bertini. The italian

sme experience and possible lessons for emerging
countries. In Executive Summary, UNIDO, March 1997.

[3] T. Sarkar. (Editor). Working together works: cluster

case studies. Foundation for MSME Clusters, New
Delhi, India, 2006.

[4] A. Lavrin and M. Zelkoi. Knowledge Sharing in digital
ecosystems for small and medium enterprises. In ISCC,
Sardinia, Italy, June 2006.

WWW 2007 / Poster PaperTopic: Developing Regions1116