Online Auctions Efﬁciency: A Survey of eBay Auctions

eBay Research Labs

88 KeYuan Road

Hu Wenyan

Shanghai 201203, China

wehu@ebay.com

Alvaro Bolivar

eBay Research Labs
2145 Hamilton Avenue
San Jose, CA 95125, USA
abolivar@ebay.com

ABSTRACT
Online auctions have become a pervasive transaction mech-
anism for e-commerce. As the largest online marketplace in
the world, eBay is an attractive case study that enables the
study of online auctions utilizing data involving real people
and transactions.

In this paper, we present a detailed investigation and anal-
ysis of multiple online auction properties including: con-
sumer surplus, sniping, bidding strategy and their cross-
relationships. Our goal is to evaluate the theoretical founda-
tions of online auctions and discover patterns and behaviors
hidden due to the lack of real and extensive transaction data.
Among our ﬁndings, we uncover an important correlation
among sniping and high surplus ratios, which implies the
uncertainty of true value in a competitive environment. The
key issue is the wrong assumption that bidders’ valuations
are independent from each other, which leads to ineﬃcient
auctions.

In order to address the ineﬃciencies of current online
formats we introduce a declining price auction model cus-
tomized for online transactions. Conceptually, this model
ought to deal with the complexities of competition in an
online environment while maximizing social welfare.

Categories and Subject Descriptors
H.4.m [Information Systems]: Miscellaneous

General Terms
Economics, Measurement, Performance, Thoery

Keywords
Auction Eﬃciency, Auction Theory, Online Auctions

1.

INTRODUCTION

Online auctions have become increasingly popular over
the last few years with a matching growth of research work
in the subject. As the largest e-commerce web site in the
world, eBay provides an extensive transaction platform for
a wide range of items. This attracts millions of buyers and
sellers daily with volumes in the order of U S $1800 per sec-
ond. Such a platform has become an important transaction
data source of great interest to researchers. In this paper,
Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Com-
mittee (IW3C2). Distribution of these papers is limited to classroom use,
and personal use by others.
WWW 2008, April 21–25, 2008, Beijing, China.
ACM 978-1-60558-085-2/08/04.

we explore this data further and identify interesting user
behaviors and correlations.

We start this section by exploring some basic economic
notions related to auction formats. We cover some of the
related work and results in this area followed by a description
of our data sources. We ﬁnish the section with the layout
and structure of the rest of the paper.
1.1 Basic Concepts

An auction is deﬁned as a selling mechanism where a plu-
rality of goods or services are open to bids and then trans-
ferred to the winning bidder or bidders. Economic theory
considers certain auction formats as eﬃcient pricing mecha-
nisms. When discussing eﬃciency in this paper, we speciﬁ-
cally refer to Economic Eﬃciency, in particular, Pareto Ef-
ﬁciency. An allocation of goods is Pareto-Eﬃcient if there
is no movement to another allocation that would make one
individual better without making any other individual worse
oﬀ. We also use the terms eﬃcient and optimal interchange-
ably.

Auctions may be characterized by common features in
both the online and oﬄine world. Some of these features
are:

• Public vs. Private: In public auctions, the bidders’
identities are open and anyone is welcome to attend the
auction. Private auctions hide the bidders’ identities
and whoever wins the auction remains anonymous.

• Open vs. Sealed: In open auctions, all bid amounts are
exposed to the world, while in sealed auctions, on the
other hand, bid amounts are concealed, additionally,
all bidders ignore the number of bids or bid amounts
during the duration of the auction.

• First-price vs. Second-price: This feature refers to the
price to be paid at the end of auction. In ﬁrst-price
auctions, the winner pays exactly the highest bid. In
second-price auctions, the second highest bid is paid.
• English vs. Dutch: This feature deﬁnes the price di-
rection during the auction’s lifespan. An auction may
start with a low price and increase as new bids arrive
until the end of the auction: English auction; or, start
with a high price, which drops in some fashion until it
reaches someone’s bid or the auction ends at a mini-
mum price: Dutch auction.

• Fixed End-time vs. Auto-extend End-time: The end
time of auction could be ﬁxed or auto-extended de-
pending of the activity at the end of the auction. For

925WWW 2008 / Alternate Track: Industrial Practice and ExperienceApril 21-25, 2008 · Beijing, Chinaexample, an auction is ended until N minutes have
passed without new bids.

• Hidden Reserve Price: A hidden reserve price is the
minimum amount that a seller is willing to receive for
an item. This price remains hidden until the reserve is
reached.

We deﬁne an Auction Format as a linear combination of
the above features. When comparing auction formats, one
of the most common questions is that whether two formats
are revenue equivalent 1, meaning, the result in the same
expected sale price. One of the most celebrated theorems in
Auction Theory is the Revenue Equivalence Theorem. The
theorem suggests that any two auction formats are revenue
equivalent if:

• the bidder with the highest type/signal/value always

wins,

• the bidder with the lowest possible type/value/signal

expects zero surplus,

• where all bidders are risk neutral and
• drawn from a strictly increasing and atomless distri-

bution.

The eBay marketplace oﬀers multiple auction formats.
The default format is an English Auction. Multiple item
auctions, of the same item type, are referred as Dutch Auc-
tions; however, this contradicts the textbook deﬁnition. In
this paper, we only cover the former auction format as it
is the most commonly used2. EBay’s English auction for-
mat is a combination of second-price, public, either open or
sealed3, with an optional hidden reserve price and a ﬁxed
end-time.
1.2 Related Work

There is extensive research in the area of online auctions,
speciﬁcally eBay auctions. Sniping and bidding strategies
are one of the most sought after topics. Roth and Ock-
enfels[1] indicated in their paper that in view of the dis-
tinct rules for ending an auction, the proportion of sniping
is substantially higher in eBay than in Amazon. Opposite
to eBay, Amazon employs an auto-extend end-time format
exclusively. Roth and Ockenfels[2], and Wang, et al.[3] have
also addressed that sniping is an optimal strategy for incre-
mental bidders. Barbaro and Bracht[4] have showed that
sniping can eﬀectively prevent being shilled, and it is a ra-
tional reaction to existing eBay rules that allows a bidder to
retract and a seller to cancel a bid. Gray and Reiley[5] have
found evidence of lower prices in the range of 2.54% of the ﬁ-
nal value for sniped auctions; however, the beneﬁt is not sta-
tistically signiﬁcant. Wilcox[6], Ockenfels and Roth[7] have
investigated 535 electronic auctions spanning four categories
on eBay and introduced the phenomenon that experts are
more likely to bid late.

1http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Revenue_equivalence#
Revenue_equivalence
2Items sold by English Auction account for 92% among all
the auction transactions.
3An auction will become private automatically when the
price on an item reaches or exceeds a certain level. http:
//pages.ebay.com/help/buy/bidding-ov.html#about

In terms of consumer surplus, Bapna, Jank and Shmueli[8]
have indicated that the median surplus level per eBay auc-
tions is $3.61 with at least 18.3% surplus ratio. Their work
is based on a sample of 4514 eBay auctions. Brynjolfsson,
Hu and Smith[9] analyzed the consumer surplus in the dig-
ital economy. Their results suggest that increased product
variety made available through electronic markets have cre-
ated signiﬁcantly larger sources of consumer surplus gains.
Ely and Hossain[10] compared sniping for DVDs on eBay
to squatting in auctions and showed that sniping leads to a
statistically signiﬁcant increase in average surplus.

For all the related work reviewed, we have found that they
only cover either a small group of goods or a limited set of
item types. This has limited the scope of their analysis and
results.
1.3 Data Source

The dataset analyzed comes from two sources: eBay So-
journer logs and eBay Data Warehouse. Sojourner is a live
feed logging system which tracing the progress of each user
session’s page view activities. Given the amount of data, all
analysis including this data source are limited to a 25% sam-
pling rate. This feed is used to determine particulars about
the user behaviour in the site, for instance, details about a
user’s search or bidding activity. eBay’s Data Warehouse is
an enormous database, which stores all information about
items and users including cumulative metrics of long term
user activity. Our analysis includes a 25% sampling rate
of all auctions that ended from July 1st, 2007 to July 7th,
2007 in the US site4 across all 34 top-level categories. This
amounts to a total of 855420 auctions. For all statistical
results reported we adopt medians instead of averages in or-
der to prevent sparse outliers. The data we employ can be
trusted authoritatively.
1.4 Structure

The rest of the paper is structured as follows. In the next
four sections we dive into the topics of consumer surplus,
sniping, other bidding features and bidding strategy. In Sec-
tion 2, we depict the notion of consumer surplus in a second
price auction, present a surplus ratio evaluation system, and
investigate the determinants of surplus ratio by item cate-
gory. In Section 3, we explore and discuss the phenomenon,
cause, classiﬁcation and strength of sniping thoroughly. In
addition, we analyze the relation between surplus ratio and
sniping. In Section 5, we render a detailed analysis of dif-
ferent bidding strategies and how they lead to distinct ﬁnal
values even in the presence of the same item. This result
questions the ability of predicting a sale price for an auc-
tion and the validity of the revenue equivalence theorem.
In the last section, we introduce a new auction format as a
supplement to the existing formats.

2. CONSUMER SURPLUS

Consumer surplus is a traditional economic notion deﬁned
as the diﬀerence between the price a consumer is willing to
pay for a good or service and the actual selling price. A
positive consumer surplus represents an imbalance between
supply and demand for any given market. In the case of auc-
tions, a secondary cause of consumer surplus are ineﬃcient
formats.

4http://www.ebay.com

926WWW 2008 / Alternate Track: Industrial Practice and ExperienceApril 21-25, 2008 · Beijing, ChinaIn contrast with a ﬁrst-price auctions, in which the winner
must pay his own highest bidding price, the winner of a
second-price auction does not necessarily pay the amount
of his or her maximum bid, therefore, creating a source of
consumer surplus in auctions. Typically, consumer surplus
in a second-price auction can be simply considered as the
excess of the highest bid price over the ﬁnal value.

eBay provides a proxy bid system, which turns the En-
glish format into a second-price auction format as well. In
the proxy system, a bidder is supposed to place the highest
amount that he or she is willing to pay, and the proxy bid
system automatically raises the bid on the user’s behalf, us-
ing only as much of the bid as is necessary to maintain the
top position.

On eBay, the ﬁnal value paid by the highest bidder is:

P = min{Vs + I(Vs), Vf},

(1)

where P, Vf , Vs represent the ﬁnal value, ﬁrst and second
highest bid amount respectively, and I is increment in con-
formity with the ﬁnal price bracket5. Vs + I > Vf if and
only if Tf < Ts and Vf − Vs < I, where Tx is the bidding
time of bid x. A buyer may win an item for less than his or
her maximum bid if Vs + I < Vf .

In order to protect the winning bidder, the actual value of
Vf is kept conﬁdential from other users including the seller.
As a result, other researchers ﬁnd challenging to calculate
the accurate consumer surplus of eBay auctions. Bapna,
Jank and Shmueli developed an automatic sniping agent for
users to bid[8] so that they were able to know what the high-
est bidding price of the items won was. However, their data
set is skewed toward more sophisticated users, most of which
attempt to snipe deliberately. As it’ll be shown in Section 3,
items won via sniping have a median consumer surplus ra-
tio twice as high as that of overall items. In addition, only
20.2% of the total auction items on eBay are won via late
bidding.
2.1 Surplus Ratio Evaluation Model

Given the wide range of item prices on eBay, using the
absolute consumer surplus value is not enough to render an
accurate picture of eBay’s consumer surplus. We deﬁne the
Consumer Surplus Ratio (CSR) as the ratio of the surplus
amount over the ﬁnal value. Giray, Hasker and Sickles intro-
duced a Median based CSR in order to derive an estimate
for the ratio’s lower bound.[11]

Median∀i

VHi − VFi

VHi

,

(2)

where VHi , VFi are the highest bid and the ﬁnal value of any
item i. In accordance with this rough CSR lower bound, an
upper bound can be deﬁned as:

Median∀i

VHi − VFi

VFi

.

(3)

The problem with these two metrics is the existence of items
may end at an extremely low price with only one bid through-
out the whole auction duration, due to the lack of users’ de-
mand or excess supply at any given time. Based on the fact
that the number of bids on an item is a powerful factor of

5http://pages.ebay.com/help/buy/bid-increments.
html

(cid:181)

(cid:181)

(cid:182)

(cid:182)

(cid:181)

conﬁdence on the ﬁnal value, we propose a reﬁned criterion
for CSR:

Median∀i

(VHi − VFi ) · (Ni + Nm)

VFi · Ni + VHi · Nm

,

(4)

(cid:182)

where Ni is the number of bids of item i and Nm is the me-
dian number of bids across all items in our dataset6. The re-
ﬁned equation takes number of bids into account and present
a more reasonable evaluation of the consumer surplus ratio,
we use this standard criterion to gage the surplus ratio in
the following context.

Equation (2), (3) and (4) are called Surplus Ratio Evalu-

ation Model.
2.2 Surplus Ratio Factors

Consider iPhones as an example. Fashionable and preva-
lent as they are, CSR is minuscule, 1.59%. This can be easily
explained given that its market price is open and the supply
is stable to most buyers in a short period of time. One is
hardly willing to bid over the market price only to win that
auction. The wiser approach is to bid slightly lower than the
market price, and just transfer to another identical product
if outbid. By contrast, Pre-1940 photographic image col-
lectibles get over 50% median CPR. Our analysis suggests
that the surplus ratio is generally impacted by the nature of
the market and the ability to ﬁnd a replacement. Rareness
itself makes the valuation process diﬃcult, therefore bidder
valuation vary widely leading to high surplus ratios. In ad-
dition, attractiveness only corresponds with number of bids
and bidders. Thus, it is not the popularity but the rarity
that matters when determining the cause for surplus ratio.
We zoom out from items to categories, which, for the most
part, represent a classiﬁcation of homogeneous items. Our
results in Figure 1 show that those categories with scarce
identical replacement have a higher surplus ratio than those
of commodity items.

Given that surplus ratio diﬀers a lot even within one single
top-level category, we select the category “Music”, which has
the largest variance, as an instance and take a deeper insight
into its subcategories. Analogous to the previous result,
Figure 2 suggests that the subcategory “Cassettes”, which
has the highest Median CSR also contains the most rare
items. Since cassettes are no longer the popular container
for music, we can scarcely ﬁnd them in the marketplace;
consequently, people’s valuation have a higher variance.

3. SNIPING
3.1 Concept Deﬁnition

Sniping is deﬁned as the process of watching a timed on-
line auction, placing a winning bid at the last possible mo-
ment, usually seconds before the End of Auction (EoA),
and giving the other bidders no time to react. In order to
crystallize the ambiguity of the concept, we should indicate
that, sniping is not only a late bid (within the last T seconds
before the EoA), but a deliberate bid as well. Those who
bid through the process of search sorted by time ending-
soonest, and bid on an item during the last few seconds
are not deemed as snipers. Neither are those incremental
bidders who happen to bid during the last few seconds, be-
cause they are not deliberately. A late bid is not regarded

6The median number of bids is 2 among all the items.

927WWW 2008 / Alternate Track: Industrial Practice and ExperienceApril 21-25, 2008 · Beijing, ChinaFigure 2: Box Plot for Category Music

as a sniping bid unless it is intentional and there is no pre-
vious bid from that bidder.
In fact, snipers never expose
themselves until the last fatal strike.
3.2 Screen Sniping and Automatic Sniping

We divide sniping into two parts by user behaviors, screen
sniping and automatic sniping. Screen sniping, a.k.a. man-
ual sniping, is the traditional way of sniping. Buyers are
squatting in front of the screen, judging upon other com-
petitors’ behaviors, waiting until last seconds, clicking the
mouse nervously so as to beat other potential buyers at the
last moment. Exciting as it is, buyers are not always able to
perform such strategy. It is impractical, for most snipers, to
stay up till 3 a.m. only to wait for the last second, even in
the case of a very attractive auction. As a result, the use of
automatic sniping agents have prevailed. One may either use
sniping software installed locally or allow a sniping service
to snipe on the user’s behalf. By means of automatic snip-
ing, the potential buyer only needs to set up the estimated
price several hours or days before the EoA, and automatic
sniping tools will bid few seconds before the EoA. Snipping
has important implications on user behavior up to the point
of changing the explicit format of the snipped auction. A
snipe bid can be deemed to be a sealed bid to a certain ex-
tent, as the bidding time and price remains concealed until
the EoA. For situations where sealed bids (or snipe bids)
coexist with open bids in the same auction, sniping has an
advantage as open bidders found their valuation upon im-
perfect information.
3.3 Sniping Estimation Model

As our statistics show, automatic sniping, especially snip-
ing services, are most likely to bid during the last 5 to 10
seconds before the EoA. The goal has two points:

• Avoid bid rejections due to network delays, and to al-
low for retries in the case of a network transmission
error.

• Giving other potential bidders no time to react.

From our data set, we can precisely distinguish whether a
snipe bid was placed via a sniping service by checking its IP
address against our sniping services list. However, bid from

Figure 1: Box Plot for Meta-categories. The box
represents values from 25th percentile to 75th per-
centile. The line and square in the box means me-
dian and average respectively.

eBay MotorsMusicStampsEntertainment MemorabiliaSpecialty ServicesCollectiblesSports Mem, Cards & Fan ShopAntiquesBooksPottery & GlassArtJewelry & WatchesDolls & BearsToys & HobbiesBusiness & IndustrialEverything ElseAllReal EstateDVDs & MoviesClothing, Shoes & AccessoriesCraftsMusical InstrumentsCoins & Paper MoneySporting GoodsHome & GardenComputers & NetworkingCameras & PhotoTravelBabyHealth & BeautyTicketsVideo GamesConsumer Electronics0%20%40%60%80%100%Surplus RatioCassettesRecordsOther formatsCDsWholesale LotsAccessories0%50%100%150%200%Surplus RatioCategory928WWW 2008 / Alternate Track: Industrial Practice and ExperienceApril 21-25, 2008 · Beijing, Chinasniping software is hard to distinguish. In order to estimate
the total sniping percentage including both screen and au-
tomatic, we take a detailed analysis on the bid arrivals.

Figure 3: Bid Arrival Strength in the Last 10 Min-
utes. The peak occurs at exact 5 seconds before the
EoA.

Figure 3 illustrates the arrival strength in the last 10 min-
utes before the EoA on eBay U.S. site. The arrival strength
is in the form of a slowly attenuated trend except the last
minute, which conﬁrms the strong relationship between snip-
ing and bid arrival time. The rest of the curve follows a sta-
ble long tail that lasts until the the start of auction, which
can be considered as inﬁnite. The dramatic burst within
last minute before the EoA shows the great enthusiasm from
those snipers. If we deﬁne B(t) as the bid arrival strength
on time t,7 then we have:

B(t) = Bs(t) + Bn(t)

where Bs(t) is the sniping bid arrival strength and Bn(t) is
the non-sniping normal bid arrival strength. As the deﬁni-
tion of sniping in Section 3.1, we also have:

(cid:189)

Bs(t)

(cid:62) 0 (t (cid:54) 60)
= 0 (t > 60)

In order to estimate the proportion of Bs in B, we calculate
Bn instead.

Most of the normal users look for their interests via “eBay
search”. Instead of sniping, those normal bidders make their
bids the right time they ﬁnd their interested items. Cur-
rently eBay provides diﬀerent sort methods such as “ordered
by time” and “ordered by price”. Statistically the latter one
should have a randomly uniform distribution on time. How-
ever, the former one is signiﬁcant to bid time distribution.
Our statistics show that 70% of the total search events are
ordered by ending soonest, which is the default sort method
among all kinds of sorts.8 We know that when a search re-
sult page is presented, those items on the top of the page
will attract more attention than those on the middle and
bottom. So if we use ordered by ending soonest to make

7Time here is reverse to the normal, it is the exact relative
time before the EoA.
8Since March 2008, Best Match becomes the default sort in
search.

a search, the most attractive items are those to be end in
a time interval from time 0 to t, which will cause a higher
probability of items in that slot to be bid on. In addition,
t is bigger when less items returned in search result page,
and vice versa. Assume the Probability Density Function
(PDF) of slot length is l(t) (t > 0), then the bidding in-
ﬂuence intensity distribution of ending soonest search fe(t)
is:

(cid:90) ∞

fe(t) =

l(t)dt

(t > 0)

(5)

t

Regarding that l(t) is massive distributed, it can be con-
sidered as Gaussian Normal distribution: N (µ, ν2) (t > 0),
and if Φµ,ν2 (t) is the corresponding Cumulative Distribution
Function (CDF) of l(t). then we have:
fe(t) = 1 − Φµ,ν2 (t)

Assume ordered by ending soonest search has an inﬂu-
ence Ie among all the searching methods, then Ie · fe(t) is
the bidding inﬂuence function on diﬀerent time t. Also, if Ip
is the inﬂuence intensity, fp(t) is the bidding inﬂuence inten-
sity distribution of ordered by price search. Then Ip · fp(t)
represents the bidding inﬂuence function of ordered by price
search. Since fp(t) is independent of time, fp can be re-
garded as uniformly distributed. Given that 93% of the
search operations are via ending soonest and price lowest,
total non-sniping bidding inﬂuence In equals to Ie + Ip ap-
proximately.

Besides, once a normal bidder is informed that he or she
has been outbid, the bidder will then consider of whether
to rebid for that item based on his or her estimation, and
iteratively. If the inﬂuence ratio on time t is σ(t), then we
have:

In(t − ∆t) = σ(t)In(t)
From Equation (5) we know that σ(t) > 1.

(6)

Considering of Figure 3, if there is no deliberate sniping,
the bid arrival strength curve ought to be smoothed through-
out the whole auction duration. Therefore, we can consider
In(t) to be continuous and diﬀerentiable. Solve Equation
(6), we have:

In(t) = et−(cid:82)

σ(t)dt

(7)

(8)

Assuming that In(t) = Ie(t) + Ip(t), then we have:

σ(t) = 1 +

Ie
In

Φ(t)l(t)

Considering that In ∝ Bn, and σ(t) > 1, then we know

that Bn applies to negative exponential like distribution.

Figure 4 shows the curve ﬁtting for Bn. Then we can
give a prediction of the continuous and diﬀerential curve in
last minute, Bnp, and ﬁgure out the percentage that sniping
contributes to the whole bids:

ts(cid:82)

Ps =

0

(B(t) − Bnp(t))dt

ts(cid:82)

B(t)dt

0

ts is the deﬁned sniping boundary time 60 seconds. Finally
we obtain that 61.4% of the events in last minute tend snip-
ing, including both manual and automatic.

0100200300400500600010002000300040005000600070008000Bid Arrival CountSeconds before the EOA Number of Bids929WWW 2008 / Alternate Track: Industrial Practice and ExperienceApril 21-25, 2008 · Beijing, Chinawe regard buyers with higher feedback as experts and lower
feedback as amateurs, Figure 3.5 suggests that experts are
more likely to snipe, especially to employ sniping service.
3.6 Surplus Ratio

When considering the surplus ratio in terms of sniping,
we ﬁnd that about 81.5% of the entire items have consumer
surplus, but 88.8% of the late bidding items have consumer
surplus. Among the whole items, the median surplus ratio is
14.91%, in which sniping contributes enormously. However
the two sniping modes are extremely distinct. The median
surplus ratio of screen sniping 18.36%, slightly higher than
that of overall bids, but the surplus ratio of sniping services
is 35.10%.

For each meta-category, we calculate its late bidding rate
and sniping services bidding rate among the total bids, and
we illustrate the results in Table 1.

Table 1: Late Bidding Rate (LBR) and Sniping Ser-
vices Bidding Rate (SSBR) per Meta-category

Meta-category
eBay Motors
Stamps
Antiques
Art
Business & Industrial
Entertainment Memorabilia
Computers & Networking
Collectibles
Cameras & Photo
Coins & Paper Money
Sports Mem, Cards & Fan Shop
Music
Dolls & Bears
Consumer Electronics
Pottery & Glass
Toys & Hobbies
Jewelry & Watches
All
Musical Instruments
Books
Video Games
Cell Phones & PDAs
Tickets
Home & Garden
Clothing, Shoes & Accessories
Crafts
Sporting Goods
Everything Else
Travel
DVDs & Movies
Health & Beauty
Baby
Real Estate
Gift Certiﬁcates

LBR

SSBR
79.60% 21.72%
1.64%
11.59%
1.33%
10.90%
1.32%
10.70%
10.65%
1.69%
1.07%
10.29%
0.94%
10.05%
1.13%
9.99%
0.78%
9.46%
9.20%
0.64%
0.83%
9.05%
1.04%
8.97%
0.51%
8.83%
0.44%
8.70%
8.66%
0.88%
0.41%
8.58%
0.76%
8.48%
0.67%
8.40%
8.27%
0.55%
0.91%
8.16%
0.36%
7.62%
0.18%
7.58%
0.21%
7.54%
7.50%
0.48%
0.49%
7.40%
0.40%
7.20%
0.40%
6.97%
0.28%
6.64%
6.47%
0.68%
0.35%
6.26%
0.26%
6.01%
0.81%
6.01%
0.21%
5.10%
4.66%
0.28%

However, stable and accurate as sniping services are, they
mostly charge for additional sniping fees. So besides the fol-
lowing reasons, buyers adopt sniping services only if they are
extremely anxious to win that item. The fact is that once
one misses the item, it is really hard to ﬁnd a repetition,
which reﬂects the rarity of that type of items. In addition,

Figure 4: Bid Arrival Strength in Last 10 Minutes
before the EoA.

3.4 Winning Rate

Late bidding, a.k.a. last minute bidding, has a higher win-
ning rate than early bidding, because the sniper yields other
competitors less time to respond. The winning rate of the
whole bids is 21.79%, namely ﬁve bids lead to one winning
bid approximately. As a contrast, late bidding winning rate
is 51.71%. Screen sniping’s winning rate is 66.73%, which
is slightly higher than sniping services’ 57.87%. The reason
is that sniping services’ actual bidding time is more likely
to be several hours or days before the EoA, which is earlier
than screen sniping. Generally, winning rate increases while
the bidding time approaches the EoA.
3.5 Experts and Amateurs

Figure 5: Bidders’ median feedback grouped by bid-
ding time.

We have also accomplished a detailed statistics on the
snipers, and ﬁnd that there’s obvious distinct on bidders’
feedback between sniping and non-sniping. Although it has
been indicated by other researchers[6], we present this analy-
sis quantitatively. Figure 3.5 has illustrated that the median
feedback of all buyers at bidding time is 60, that of late bid-
ding is 131, and that of sniping services bidders is 407. If

0100200300400500600010002000300040005000600070008000 Number of BidsSeconds before the EOABid Arrival Strength4071851305560Sniping Services Screen SnipingLate BiddingNon-snipingTotal Bidders' Median FeedbackGroup by Bidding Time930WWW 2008 / Alternate Track: Industrial Practice and ExperienceApril 21-25, 2008 · Beijing, Chinawe ﬁnd that the order of Table 1 is exactly analogous with
that of Figure 1, therefore we consider that it is the rar-
ity that leads to high surplus ratio, and rarity causes high
sniping services rate, which accelerates surplus ratio as well.
Given that most of the time buyers render the estimated
value to sniping services several hours or days before the
EoA, when they know nothing about the price trend of that
item, nevertheless, it deserves to pay the estimated value
plus sniping fees for that item to the sniper. Consider that
high surplus ratio may not reﬂect the real value of those
rare items because of sniping, especially sniping service, as
a result, we come up with a new heuristic auction model in
order to prevent the aberrant high surplus ratio.

4. OTHER FEATURES OF BIDDING

In order to present a detailed analysis on auction theory,
we depict some other interesting features that we have dis-
covered.
4.1 Trace of Bid Source

Buyers make bids via various processes. Some buyers
like to do a keyword search, looking for an interesting item
among the results, reviewing the bid history and seller’s
feedback, making a bid at last. Some buyers like to use
yahoo or google search at ﬁrst, comparing items in diﬀerent
sites and bid on eBay at last. Others would like to save
the item in the bookmark of browser or “my eBay”, and bid
them several minutes before the EOA. In order to ﬁnd the
percentage of the bid sources, we trace each bid in Sojourner
and group them by bidding time. We can ﬁnd from Figure
6 that about 50% of bids are via “eBay search”, however
when the time approaches the EOA, less bidders use “eBay
search”. Instead, bids from bookmark and sniping services
increasing intensely in the last minute.

seem to be more attractive event though the total payments
are much higher.

Figure 7: Final value and total payment on shipping
fee. (Total Payment = Final Value + Shipping Fee)

4.3 Seller’s Feedback Score

Seller’s feedback score is another important factor that
inﬂuences buyer’s judgement. The fact that buyers trust
power sellers9 more than normal sellers can be recognized
from Figure 8, which shows that ﬁnal value increases with
the growing of seller’s feedback score.

Figure 6: Percentage of diﬀerent bid sources.

4.2 Shipping Fee

In order to ﬁnd out the shipping fee inﬂuence on ﬁnal value
and buyers’ total payment, we select all the “8GB Apple
iPhone” items sold on eBay U.S. site since June 29 to August
31.

Figure 7 shows that when shipping fee is about $5.00, ﬁnal
value is at the lowest, and total payment gradually increases
according to the rising of shipping fee. Free shipping items

Figure 8: Prices of sellers’ feedback score.

5. BIDDING STRATEGY

From Section 3.5, we have illustrated the distinct bidding
behaviors among various bidders. Generally, more experi-
enced bidders are more likely to place their bids during the
last minute than less experienced bidders. In a second-price
online auction, for the sake of simplicity, we divide bidders
into three types according to their distinct bidding strate-
gies: na¨ıve, frank and sophisticated. Naive bidders do incre-
mental bidding, considering the game as a traditional live

9http://pages.ebay.com/help/sell/
sell-powersellers.html

Last 30 secLast 30 - 60 secLast 1 - 10 minLast 10 - 60 minLast 1 - 24 hrLast 1 - 2 daysremains0.00.20.40.60.81.0PercentageTime Intervals eBay search my eBay Bookmark Not Sure Sniping servers Other Sites (Yahoo!, Webmail, google)05101520253035600620640660680700720740Price ($)Shipping Fee (S) Total Payment Final Value10100100010000660680700720Price ($)Sellers' Feedback Score Median Final Value Median Total Payment931WWW 2008 / Alternate Track: Industrial Practice and ExperienceApril 21-25, 2008 · Beijing, ChinaTable 2: Matrix of Winner. (H in column is willing
to pay higher than L in the row. N, F and S means
Na¨ıve, Frank and Sophisticated bidder.)

HHHHHH

L

LN

LF

LS

HN HN
LS
HF HF HF
HS HS HS

HN
HF
HS

auction. They monitor the auction and manually bid just
one increment over current price. Frank bidders obey eBay’s
guidelines, entering the maximum price they are willing to
pay and leaving everything to the proxy bidding mechanism.
Sophisticated bidders only snipe.

Imaging an auction with only two participants. We present
a matrix to show the results on diﬀerent situations. From
Table 5 we can ﬁgure out that when a na¨ıve bidder who
has a higher willing-to-pay price competes with a sophisti-
cated bidder, the winner is the sophisticated one, because
the sophisticated one uses sniping and that na¨ıve bidder will
have no time to make an incremental rebid even if his or her
willing-to-pay price is much higher, and the ﬁnal value could
be signiﬁcantly lower. But if that sophisticated bidder fol-
lows eBay’s guideline, behaving as a frank bidder, he or she
will lose at all, because the na¨ıve bidder has enough time
to outbid him or her. The problem becomes much more
complicated when multiple bidders are involved.

We can draw the conclusion for various bidding strategies
among na¨ıve, frank and sophisticated bidders. Frank bidders
are more politic than na¨ıve bidders because10:

• Frank bidder saves time on bidding activities.
• Frank bidder will win deﬁnitely if his or her bid is the

highest.

• Frank bidder is a good strategy in response to those

smug lowball bidders.

And sophisticated bidders are more sagacious than frank
bidders since:

• sniping can avoid an emotional bidding war which drives

up the ﬁnal value irrationally.

• sniping can avoid showing up the estimation earlier.
• sniping can avoid the max amount being probed.
• sniping is a good strategy in response to incremental

bidding.

Then one may consider that sniping is the best bidding
strategy for buyers to minimize the cost. But if all bidders
were snipers, then the auction format would transform into
a sealed bid auction11, which runs against the original design
of eBay’s auction format.

10http://www.moyen.org/snipe/
11http://www.reviews.com/hottopic/hottopic_essay_
05.cfm

6. DECLINING PRICE AUCTION MODEL
Previously we discussed how the main goal of auctions is
to determine the real value of a commodity via incremen-
tal bids. Traditionally, as a pricing mechanism, live auctions
are largely employed for antiques, paintings, collectibles etc.,
which are comparatively hard for sellers to determine a ﬁxed
price. The fundamental result in traditional auction is Rev-
enue Equivalence Theorem, addressed by Vickrey[12], which
states that under certain conditions, various auction formats
yield the same expected revenue to the seller. The Inter-
net facilitates the transactions between sellers and buyers,
which leads to online auctions for various types of goods. Us-
ing a ﬁeld experiment technique, Lucking-Reiley compared
revenue outcomes between ﬁrst-price sealed-bid and Dutch
auctions, and between second-price sealed-bid and English
auctions[13]. His results indicate that Dutch auctions pro-
vide a higher rate of revenue compared to ﬁrst-price auc-
tions, which are conﬂicting results with that from labora-
tory experiments and the theory. His explanation is that
a Dutch auction format generates more participation than
the ﬁrst-price auction format in a real market, as well as
bidders’ psychological eﬀect from a real Dutch clock. We
have shown that due to the eﬀect of ﬁxed end time and
diverse bidding behaviors, revenue of online auctions diﬀer
from time to time. A noticeable deviation from real market
value can be found in sniping and scarce items. If somehow
the true value cannot be reﬂected via an auction format,
we have to alternate among various formats. The results so
far suggest that diﬀerent auction format are more eﬃcient
depending on the type of item being sold.

In Section 2, we have introduced Surplus Ratio to mea-
sure how much higher the highest bidder is willing to pay
over the ﬁnal value. Rareness lead to high surplus ratio due
to the uncertainty on its real price. In order to determine
the price more precisely, we propose a declining price auc-
tion model for those popular but rare items. Usually, all
the participants should be on-site when a Dutch Auction
begins. We modify the traditional Dutch Auction format so
is suitable for online activity.

• If a seller selects to list an item with declining price
auction, he or she should set a starting price, a reserved
price, starting time and auction duration. The starting
should be the seller’s expected highest price a potential
buyer will be willing to pay. It may be equal or higher
than the BIN (Buy It Now) price of similar items. 12
• Once the auction begins, the current price decreases
from the seller’s starting price to the reserved price
within throughout the auction duration by means of
an optimal curve.

• When a buyer ﬁnds this item, he or she is able to bid
the current price -from the buyers perspective this is a
BIN operation-, or bid an amount lower than current
price.

• All the bidding information is public to everyone, and
the current highest bid price is equal to the second
highest amount plus an increment.

• Once the current price drop to an amount equal or
lower than the current highest bid, that bidder wins
the item, at this point the auction ends.

12http://pages.ebay.com/help/buy/how-buy-bin.html

932WWW 2008 / Alternate Track: Industrial Practice and ExperienceApril 21-25, 2008 · Beijing, ChinaThis new auction model is a combination of Dutch, pub-
lic, second-price format. The distinctions between Declining
Price Auction format and existing formats are:

• Declining Price Auction format employs a descending
price while the existing format adopts ascending price.
• BIN price of Declining Price Auction format is drop-
ping as the auction happens while that of the existing
format is ﬁxed.

Within this auction model, buyers have no incentive to
snipe. Each bidder who is interested in that auction should
oﬀer the maximum amount that he or she is will to pay for
that item. In order to raise the ﬁnal value, we can adopt
decreasing curve function in the format
y = A − B·eCx,

which has a low price drop rate beginning of the auction
compared to a high price drop rate when time approaches
the EoA.

Declining Price Auction also has a beneﬁt on speeding
up the auction duration. When the price reaches someone’s
valuation, the auction ends immediately, while in the exist-
ing English auction the highest bidder has to wait until the
predeﬁned ﬁxed end time.

7. CONCLUSION

We have studied consumer surplus, sniping and other bid-
ding features, and we have illustrated the relationships among
sniping rate, consumer surplus ratio and rareness of items.
We have demonstrated that distinct bidding behaviors lead
to completely diﬀerent ﬁnal values. As a result, we propose
a declining price auction format which aims to drive the
auction ﬁnal price to a more eﬃcient allocation.

8. ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

This work was supported by eBay Inc. Any opinions,
ﬁndings and conclusions or recommendations expressed in
this material are the authors and do not necessarily reﬂect
those of the sponsors. We would also like to thank Mark
Boyd for his insights and feedback throughout this work.

9. REFERENCES
[1] Alvin E. Roth and Axel Ockenfels. Last-Minute
Bidding and the Rules for Ending Second-Price
Auctions: Evidence from eBay and Amazon Auctions
on the Internet. The American Economic Review,
92(4):1093–1103, September 2002.

[2] Axel Ockenfelsa and Alvin E. Roth. Late and multiple
bidding in second price internet auctions: Theory and
evidence concerning diﬀerent rules for ending an
auction. Games and Economic Behavior,
55(2):297–320, May 2006.

[3] Wenli Wang, Zoltan Hidvegi, and Andrew B.

Whinston. Shill-Proof Fee (SPF) Schedule: the
Sunscreen against Seller Self-Collusion in Online
English Auctions. October 2004. http:
//www.wenli.net/Application/Wenli-Shill.pdf.

[4] Salvatore Barbaro and Bernd Bracht. Shilling,

Squeezing, Sniping: Explaining late bidding in online
second-price auctions. January 2006. http://www.
staff.uni-mainz.de/barbaro/BarbaroBracht.pdf.
[5] Sean Gray and David Reiley. Measuring the Beneﬁts

to Sniping on eBay: Evidence from a Field
Experiment. April 2007. http://www.u.arizona.edu/
~dreiley/papers/Sniping.pdf.

[6] Ronald T. Wilcox. Experts and Amateurs: The Role

of Experience in Internet Auctions. Marketing Letters,
11(4):363–374, November 2000.

[7] Axel Ockenfels and Alvin E. Roth. The Timing of
Bids in Internet Auctions: Market Design, Bidder
Behavior, and Artiﬁcial Agents. Artiﬁcial Intelligence
Magazine, 23(3):79–87, 2002.

[8] Ravi Bapna, Wolfgang Jank, and Galit Shmueli.

Consumer Surplus in Online Auctions. July 2006.
http://www.smith.umd.edu/faculty/wjank/
consumerSurplusOnlineAuctions-ISR.pdf.

[9] Erik Brynjolfsson, Yu (Jeﬀrey) Hu, and Michael D.
Smith. Consumer Surplus in the Digital Economy:
Estimating the Value of Increased Product Variety at
Online Booksellers. Management Science,
49(11):1580–1596, November 2003.

[10] Jeﬀrey C. Ely and Tanjim Hossain. Sniping and

Squatting in Auction Markets. July 2006.
http://ihome.ust.hk/~tanjim/squat.pdf.

[11] Tugba Giray, Kevin Hasker, and Robin Sickles.

Estimating Consumer Surplus in eBay Computer
Monitor Auctions. November 2006.
http://www.bilkent.edu.tr/~hasker/Research/
Giray-Hasker-Sickles-CS-eBay-06-02-23.pdf.

[12] William Vickrey. Counterspeculation, Auctions, and

Competitive Sealed Tenders. The Journal of Finance,
16(1):8–37, March 1961.

[13] David Lucking-Reiley. Using Field Experiments to

Test Equivalence Between Auction Formats: Magic on
the Internet. The American Economic Review,
89(5):1063–1080, December 1999.

933WWW 2008 / Alternate Track: Industrial Practice and ExperienceApril 21-25, 2008 · Beijing, China