A Large-Scale Study of Web Password Habits

Dinei Florˆencio and Cormac Herley

Microsoft Research
One Microsoft Way
Redmond, WA, USA

dinei@microsoft.com, c.herley@ieee.org

ABSTRACT
We report the results of a large scale study of password use
and password re-use habits. The study involved half a mil-
lion users over a three month period. A client component
on users’ machines recorded a variety of password strength,
usage and frequency metrics. This allows us to measure
or estimate such quantities as the average number of pass-
words and average number of accounts each user has, how
many passwords she types per day, how often passwords are
shared among sites, and how often they are forgotten. We
get extremely detailed data on password strength, the types
and lengths of passwords chosen, and how they vary by site.
The data is the ﬁrst large scale study of its kind, and yields
numerous other insights into the rˆole the passwords play in
users’ online experience.

Categories and Subject Descriptors
K.6.5 [Management Of Computing And Information
Systems]: Security and Protection—Authentication

General Terms
Security

Keywords
password, authentication, measurements

1.

INTRODUCTION

Passwords play a large part of the typical web user’s expe-
rience. The are the near universal means for gaining access
to accounts of all kinds. Email, banks, portals, dating and
social networking sites all require passwords. So important
are they that HTML has a special form ﬁeld to allow for
the special treatment they require, and an important rˆole of
SSL is protecting the secrecy of passwords from observers of
the connection.

Alternative to passwords certainly exist. Hardware au-
thentication, e.g. [1], is sometimes used for access to corpo-
rate networks. However, this requires an issuing authority
and seems to be limited to environments that justify the
cost, such as in the employer-employee relationship. Chal-
lenge response authentication has the advantage that ob-
serving a single successful sign in does not allow an attacker

Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Com-
mittee (IW3C2). Distribution of these papers is limited to classroom use,
and personal use by others.
WWW 2007, May 8–12, 2007, Banff, Alberta, Canada.
ACM 978-1-59593-654-7/07/0005.

to gain the secret. However, challenge response systems are
generally regarded as being more time consuming than pass-
word entry and do not seem widely deployed. One time
passwords have also not seen broad acceptance. The dif-
ﬁculty for users of remembering many passwords is obvi-
ous. Various Password Management systems oﬀer to assist
users by having a single sign-on using a master password
[7, 13]. Again, the use of these systems does not appear
widespread. For a majority of users, it appears that their
growing herd of password accounts is maintained using a
small collection of passwords. For a user with, e.g. 30 pass-
word accounts, the problem becomes not remembering 30
distinct passwords, but rather remembering which of 5 or 6
passwords was used. This appears to be done using a com-
bination of memory, pieces of paper, trial and error (trying
each of the passwords in turn), and password resets.

Since passwords protect accounts with valuable assets
they have increasingly been subjected to harvesting attacks.
Phishing attacks, where a victim is lured into submitting her
password to a malicious site masquerading as a trusted insti-
tution have increased enormously in the last few years [11].
Incidences of keylogging malware, which record keystrokes
on a PC have also been rising rapidly. Unlike brute force
attacks on passwords, both phishing and keylogging harvest
strong passwords as easily as weak ones. Thus the nature
of the risk surrounding password authentication has altered
greatly. The longstanding problem of users choosing pass-
words that are too easily brute forced [12, 6, 3] has been
joined by the new problem of users unwittingly revealing
their passwords in the clear.

The convenience of web access to accounts is extremely
compelling, and thus the rˆole they play in the average web
users life seems likely to increase. However we ﬁnd that ﬁrm
data on users’ actual password habits is hard to come by. It
is conventional wisdom that users choose weak passwords,
frequently re-use passwords across multiple sites, and often
forget them. In this paper we report on a large scale study of
web users habits where we measured and report these and
other patterns for the ﬁrst time. We obtained data from
over half a million users over a period of three months. This
is more than 100 times more participants than any previous
study we are aware of.

Among our interesting ﬁndings is how large a rˆole web
passwords play in users lives. The average user has 6.5
passwords, each of which is shared across 3.9 diﬀerent sites.
Each user has about 25 accounts that require passwords, and
types an average of 8 passwords per day. That users choose
weak passwords has been known informally for some time;

WWW 2007 / Track: Security, Privacy, Reliability, and EthicsSession: Passwords and Phishing657we are able to measure exactly how weak. Users choose
passwords with an average bitstrength 40.54 bits. The over-
whelming majority of users choose passwords that contain
lower case letters only (i.e. no uppercase, digits, or special
characters) unless forced to do otherwise. We were able to
measure that 0.4% of users type passwords (on an annual-
ized basis) at veriﬁed phishing sites, and at least 0.2% of
users actively maintain their own router. Finally users for-
get passwords a lot: we estimate that at least 1.5% of Yahoo
users forget their passwords each month.

In the next section we cover details of the client and the
data gathered. In Section 3 we present our results, broken
into logical sections. In Section 4 we discuss related work.

2. EXPERIMENTAL METHOD

Our client software shipped as a component of one skew
of Windows Live Toolbar. Not all toolbar users received the
component. The component was optional, and users were
presented with an opt-in agreement. The toolbar was ﬁrst
available for download on the Microsoft web on 7/24/2006,
and a total of 544960 clients received, opted in and activated
by 10/1/2006.
2.1 Client Implementation

The client consists of a module within the toolbar that
monitors and records Password Re-use Events (PRE’s). It
contains the following main components.

HTML password locator: this component scans the
document object model
in search of ﬁlled-out password
ﬁelds, and extracts the passwords. The ﬁrst task merely
involves searching the HTML for ﬁelds declared

inputtype="password"

and extracting the value ﬁeld. This search is initiated every
time the browser BeforeNavigate2 event occurs. Thus we
ﬁnd completed password ﬁelds before they are sent to the
server. Once the password is found it is hashed and added
to the Protected Password List (PPL).

Protected Password List: This list contains the pass-
word hash, the full URL of the receiving server, the bit-
strength of the password, the current time, and minutes
since both the ﬁrst and last time (if any) that password was
sent to that server. All of the information in the PPL is
stored using the Data Protection API (DPAPI) provided by
Windows [14] (the same API that is used to protect pass-
words that Windows stores). Thus any passwords that the
HTML Password Locator ﬁnds are stored at least as se-
curely as passwords that a user elects to save. Passwords
with bitstrength < 20 bits generate no entry in the PPL.

Realtime password locator: this component maintains
a 16 character FIFO that stores the last 16 keys typed while
the browser had focus. Call this string f0, f1,··· , f15. At
every keystroke, while the browser has focus, the realtime
password locator ﬁrst checks whether the string f0f1 ··· f6
matches any of the already stored passwords in the PPL.
It then checks whether f0f1 ··· f7 matches, and so on un-
til ﬁnally it checks whether f0f1 ··· f15 matches any of the
hashes. Thus it performs a hash check a maximum of ten
times the number of entries in the PPL. When a match
occurs (i.e. when a typed sequence in the FIFO matches
a password in the PPL) it checks whether the URL of the
current server is among the URLs previously associated with
the password. If not a Password Re-use Event (PRE) report
is sent to the server.

with the password

with the password

word (secondary URLs)

PRE Report: this contains:
• the current (primary) URL
• all of the URLs previously associated with the pass-
• time since last login at each URL previously associated
• time since ﬁrst login at each URL previously associated
• the password strength
• number of entries in the PPL, and number of PREs
• number of unique passwords used by this client
• the age of the client.
The format of the report is

ﬁled by client

[Up,{sU0, sU1,··· , sUN−1},{t0, t1,··· , tN−1},

{τ0, τ1,··· , τN−1}, PwdStr, PPLSz, NPREs, NPwds, CAge].
Suppose for example that a user has a password that is used
at PayPal, Yahoo, eBay and YouTube. The ﬁrst time the
password is typed (say at eBay) it will be added to the PPL,
and no report made to the server. This password can then
be typed at eBay over and over and will generate no PRE
reports and no additions to the PPL. The next time it is
typed at a site other than eBay (say Yahoo) a PRE report
will be sent listing www.yahoo.com as the primary URL Up
and www.ebay.com/login as the secondary sU0. Now typing
it at PayPal will cause a PRE report listing www.paypal.
com as Up and www.yahoo.com and www.ebay.com/login as
sU0, sU1. Observe that neither the password, nor its hash
are sent in the report. There is no personally identifying
information in the report.

Note: The reason that we perform the realtime password
check is that we wish to be sure that we catch every Pass-
word Re-use Event. If a user enters a password at URL A it
will be entered in the PPL by the HTML password locator.
However it is possible that the password could be typed at
another site that does not use a HTML password ﬁeld. We
wish to capture and report any case where a previously used
password is typed at another site.

2.1.1 Privacy

A number of measures were taken to protect the privacy
of those who opted in. No Personally Identifying Informa-
tion was gathered from the clients. Neither passwords, nor
usernames, nor their hashes were sent to the server. IP ad-
dresses from which reports were received were not stored at
the server. In addition the time at which PRE reports were
received was timestamped at the server with granularity 10
minutes to make identifying users by login times diﬃcult.
Finally, the recorded password strengths were quantized to
eliminate the possibility that a unique password strength
might identify a user. A privacy audit was performed and
published [10]. This conﬁrmed, among other things that
no personally identifying information was transmitted, and
that URL information sent could not be used to identify
a user’s personal information (e.g. if a userid or name ap-
peared as part of a URL). None of the aggregated statistics
we present here involve data from fewer than 250 users.

2.1.2

Server

The server records each received report and stores with a
per-PRE report ID and a timestamp. It does not record any

WWW 2007 / Track: Security, Privacy, Reliability, and EthicsSession: Passwords and Phishing658location information such as IP address that might allow for
identiﬁcation of the user or his/her location.

2.2 The Data

Downloads began almost as soon as the client became
available on the web, and data from the clients began to
ﬂow shortly thereafter.

2.2.1 Canonicalization of URLs

The client reports the full primary and secondary URL.
Some sites use a unique string per login event, so that the
URL will never appear the same. In T-SQL we canonicalize
by setting URLc to

substring(URL+’/’,1,charindex(’/’,URL+’/’,9))

As an example the URLs www.foo.com/bar/ and www.foo.
com would be mapped to www.foo.com/.

2.2.2 Cleaning the data

As with any large scale study unforeseen issues caused
the data to be noisier than anticipated. The client reports
a PRE whenever a password is typed at a site other than
the ﬁrst URL with which it is associated. For example
www.bigbank.com/foo1 and www.bigbank.com/foo2 will
count as diﬀerent sites. We extracted all reports where the
authority is determined to be the same.

As detailed in Section 2.1 our component’s strategy for
adding to the PPL was to check for a non-empty password
ﬁeld on the page when the BeforeNavigate2 event ﬁred.
This certainly occurs every time a user types into a pass-
word ﬁeld and submits. However, there are a signiﬁcant
number of sites that have a login form pre-populated with
default values. The gaming site www.iwin.com, for example,
has a login form pre-populated with the values “username”
and “password” and this form is on many of the pages on
the site. A single visit to the site causes a new list to be
formed in the PPL. As the user visits other pages on the
site these generate PRE reports against the original page.
Since the user has not actually typed a password we view
these entries as spurious (and indeed they tell us nothing
about the user’s password habits). By removing all records
where the primary and secondary URLs derive from the
same authority we eliminate the eﬀect of such lists. Note
that this operation merely groups reports from the same
client; it does not allow us to identify the client.

2.2.3 Generating a per list identiﬁer

(cid:80)

The PRE reports from clients do not contain an identiﬁer
that would allow us to group reports from a single client.
Suppose a client has k passwords, p0, p1,··· , pk−1 and pi is
i(ni − 1) reports
used at ni sites. Thus we would receive
from this client, ni − 1 for each of the passwords. Since
we do not have a identiﬁer that uniquely identiﬁes the client
there is no exact method to group together all of the reports
generated by a single client.
It is possible, however, to group the (ni − 1) reports
that come from the same client using the same password
at ni diﬀerent sites. Grouping P wdStr, CAge, {sU0, sU1},
{τ0, τ1} (i.e. the strength, client age, ﬁrst two URLs visited
using this password, and the visit times) suﬃces to uniquely
identify all (ni − 1) of the PRE reports for password pi
most of the time. In only a tiny minority of cases do two
distinct users instal the toolbar at the same time, have a

same strength password, and visit the same ﬁrst two URLs
at about the same time.
2.3 Limitations, Caveats and Sources of Bias
We should emphasize that data gathering was not the
main goal of the component: there are many things that
we would do diﬀerently if we were to design a component
purely for measurement. There are certain limitations of the
study and the data. Users may type passwords from more
than one machine, and thus we will miss a potentially large
fraction of their password behavior. Conversely, more than
one person might be signing in to various online accounts
using the same Windows session, and thus we would get
higher password counts in the PPL.

The client generates a PRE whenever a password previ-
ously associated with another site is typed. If a user chooses
a password that is a common word a PRE will be gener-
ated every time they type that word. Since, passwords of
strength < 20 bits are not entered in the PPL, we view this
as a minor source of error.

Since the client was included as part of a toolbar download
from Microsoft it is likely that there is a bias toward the
sites maintained by Microsoft and away from those of its
competitors. For example users of Yahoo toolbar might be
expected to be more likely to have accounts at Yahoo sites
than MSN or Google sites. Thus the Table 1, which contains
relative frequencies, should be interpreted as having some
bias. Finally, there is selection bias: we have data only
from users who downloaded the toolbar. These users can be
expected to be far more active than the general web using
population.

3. RESULTS

We now present some of the ﬁndings from the data, begin-
ning with some basic quantities about the nature of clients.
3.1 Number and Nature of Clients

Figure 1 shows the cumulative number of clients as a func-
tion of time. There were approximately 6400 activations per
day; and we had 544960 clients installed after 85 days. This
is the client base and time period over which we did the bulk
of our analysis. Except when indicated otherwise it can be
assumed that we are referring to this set.

Figure 1: Number of installed clients as a function of
time (upper curve). Number of distinct canonicalized
password URLs visited by the whole population as a
function of time (lower curve).

010203040506070800123456x 105Days after RTWInstalled Clients/Distinct URLs visitedWWW 2007 / Track: Security, Privacy, Reliability, and EthicsSession: Passwords and Phishing6593.1.1 Number of Passwords Per Client

To estimate the number of passwords per client we use
the NPwds ﬁeld in the PRE report. Since there is no overall
unique identiﬁer per client we have to be careful to ensure
that we do not count clients more than once in the calcu-
lations. While we do not have a unique identiﬁer we do
know that each client as it ﬁles PRE reports will report a
given value for NPREs only once. To get an idea of how
many passwords a client has, and how it evolves with the
time since instal we calculated the average NPwds used by
a client, as a function of the age of the client in days (at
the time of the report). We performed this calculation at
NPREs = 10; the results are shown in Figure 2. As can
be seen clients seem to add passwords rapidly the ﬁrst few
days, but this levels oﬀ after a month or so. The average
client appears to have about seven distinct passwords that
are actively used, and ﬁve of them have been used within
three days of installing the client.

There can be some over counting here. Recall from Sec-
tion 2.1, that the HTML password locator adds an entry to
the PPL when a non-empty password ﬁeld is found on the
page when the browser BeforeNavigate2 event ﬁres. There
is no veriﬁcation that a successful login occurs. Thus a user
who mistypes a password and submits it would generate a
spurious entry in the PPL. However, any typing mistake that
is not submitted would not (the BeforeNavigate2 event ﬁres
only when the user clicks or submits).

3.1.2 Number of sites per password vs. Age

To calculate the number of times the average user re-uses
a password we count the number of secondary URLs accom-
panying the primary URL in each PRE report. Since some
sites show up as a diﬀerent URL on each visit we canoni-
calize URLs (as in Section 2.2.1) before counting. Thus a
PRE report that contains https://www.paypal.com as the
primary URL and http://www.yahoo.com/foo1 and http:
//www.yahoo.com/foo2 as secondaries would be counted as
being re-used at one site rather than two.

Again, we must avoid over counting. We calculate the
averages over all available lists, using the list identiﬁer cal-
culated in Section 2.2.3. The resulting number of sites per
password is shown in Figure 3. As can be seen the aver-
age password appears to be eventually used at just under 6
distinct login sites, but it takes on the order of two months
to reach that point. The ﬁrst four or so sites that share a
password are all visited in the ﬁrst week. Note that pass-
words used at only one site generate no PRE reports. Again
there will be some over-counting caused by users forgetting
passwords and trying several passwords before logging in.

3.1.3 Number of sites per password vs. Strength

We also measure the number of sites that share a password
on average. This is shown in Figure 4, where we compute
the fraction of passwords (across all clients) that are shared
by two sites, three sites etc.. Recall that unique passwords
do not show up. This is because PRE reports are sent to the
server only when a password re-use event has occurred. A
client who uses a password once will have that entered in the
PPL, but if it is never re-used the server will never receive
a report on it. Since it takes some time for the client’s PPL
to ﬁll, we have used data only from reports ﬁled by clients
at least 30 days old at the time of the report.

The average number of sites sharing a password (averaged
across all passwords on which we received PRE reports) is
5.67; this is the mean of the histogram shown in Figure 3.
We also show the histogram for weak passwords, those with
bitstrength < 30 bits, and strong passwords, those with bit-
strengths > 60 bits. Observe that the strong passwords are
used at fewer sites on average (the mean is 4.48 sites). Weak
passwords are used at more sites on average (the mean is at
6.06 sites). This accords well with our expectation that users
employ weak passwords at multiple sites when the password
rules are lax. Sites that impose password strength rules
make it harder to share, and users probably have fewer such
accounts. There were 24k, 118k, 7.2k passwords used for
the weak, average and strong password distributions respec-
tively (all from clients more than 30 days old).

There is also a possibility of over counting in our num-
bers. Occasionally a user with an account at, say, Yahoo
will forget which of his k passwords is used for that account.
Suppose his Yahoo password is p0, but he initially tries p2
and p1 before logging in correctly. In using passwords that
are already in his PPL the user causes PRE reports to be
sent, and for Yahoo to be added to the list of sites sharing
passwords p1 an p2. Thus this site now appears to share 3 of
the passwords in the user’s PPL. Since we count the number
of secondary URLs with the number of sites sharing a pass-
word (without verifying that an actual login has occurred)
this causes some over counting of the number of sites per
password. We examine bitstrength by site in Section 3.3.1.
We examine password forgetting in Section 3.3.3.

Figure 2: Number of distinct passwords used by a client
vs. age of client in days. The average client appears to
have about 7 passwords that are shared, and 5 of them
have been re-used at least once within 3 days of installing
the client.

3.1.4 How many passwords does a user type per day?
To estimate this we examined the ﬁrst 24 hours of the
life of a client. Recall, each PRE report carries information
about the password being re-used, as well as information
about the client. The average number of distinct secondary
URLs (canonicalized as in Section 2.2.1) reported by each
PRE in the ﬁrst 24 hours, plus one (for the primary URL) is
a good estimate of the number of times that password is used
per day. To avoid overcounting we take only the last PRE
per list (using the list ID generated in Section 2.2.3). This
estimate may be somewhat high, since users may be more
active, and more inclined to login at multiple sites the day
they install the client. There is also a bias against infrequent

0102030405060012345678Age of ClientDistinct PasswordsWWW 2007 / Track: Security, Privacy, Reliability, and EthicsSession: Passwords and Phishing660user has:

Pwds per Client × Sites per pwd = 6.5 × 3.9 ≈ 25,

accounts. We use the estimate of sites per password at 7
days to avoid bias toward passwords that still generate PRE
reports after a long period of time. We point out that there
may be some over counting caused by typos, and users trying
more than one of their passwords (thus boosting the sites per
password count).
3.2 Functions of time

3.2.1 Frequency of logins at popular sites

Here we estimate how often users login at diﬀerent sites.
This data is not directly available, since we only generate a
report the ﬁrst time a site is visited. To obtain an estimate,
we use a ﬁeld in the PRE report that indicates how much
time has elapsed since last visit to each of the sites in the
reuse list. This is generated only when a user types the same
password at a diﬀerent site. If the visits to the sites were
independent, the average of the elapsed time would be half
the mean time between visits.

The problem with that is that users tend to group their
web usage. So, if they go to web sites in random order, data
would show that about half the time, they have just visited
each other site. To complicate things further, the ordering
of visit to sites is probably not random: for example, users
may tend to check their e-mail accounts ﬁrst thing when
they login.

So, in trying to obtain an unbiased estimate of how often
users login at several web sites, we get a slice in time of the
PRE reports, ignore the reports with less than 5 minutes,
and use the median of the time elapsed from the remaining
reports. Table 1 the estimates for the 15 most popular sites.
Worth mentioning is the fact that sites that allow you to
keep logged for a long time (e.g., passport) have a reasonably
long time between login events. Casual sites, like youtube
or paypal have a longer times between login events than, say
e-mail sites. Similarly, addictive sites, like social networking
sites, or adult sites seem to have a smaller time between
logins.

3.2.2 Logins by hour of day, day of week

We evaluated the distribution of login times. Remember
logins diﬀer from normal browsing, as they require an ac-
count relationship with the hosting site. Figure 5 shows a
distribution of a few representative sites across the week.
Interestingly, sites like 4kids.tv have an increased traﬃc
during the weekend, while most other sites present gener-
ally higher number of logins during the weekdays. Note
how logins correlate with the nature of the site; e.g. note
the similarity between Chase.com and BankOfAmerica.com.
Figure 6 shows the login distribution along the day. Here
the match between the banks is not as perfect, what can
be attributed to diﬀerences in the time zones of each bank
costumers, for example.
In fact, by looking at merchants
that use diﬀerent domains in diﬀerent countries, we can get
a feeling for the inﬂuence of the time zone. For example,
Figure 7 shows the time of the day distribution for 3 dif-
ferent sites of Amazon: amazon.co.uk, amazon.co.jp, and
amazon.com.

Figure 3: Number of sites per password vs. age of client
in days. The average password appears to be used at
about 6 diﬀerent sites.

Figure 4: Fraction of the number of sites that share a
password for weak passwords (bitstrength < 30 bits),
strong passwords (> 60 bits) and the overall average. Ob-
serve that weaker passwords tend to be shared at more
sites, and stronger ones at fewer.

internet users. For example a user who goes online only once
a week, and checks multiple accounts that day would bias
this estimate upwards, since they would have no activity
for the rest of the week. Since infrequent users are unlikely
to be early adopters of toolbar downloads we view this as
a minor source of bias. The number of distinct passwords
used by a client is given in the report. Thus averaging we
get (for 24 hours)
Pwds per Client × Sites per pwd = 2.519 × 3.2202 ≈ 8.11,

passwords that a user types per day. There is also a cer-
tain measure of under counting in this estimate. A user
who checks web email several times a day and retypes the
password will have that counted only once in this estimate.

3.1.5 How many password accounts does the average

user have?

Passwords per client times sites per password is a good
estimate of the number of passwords a user types per day if
we measure both those numbers in the ﬁrst 24 hours, and
assume that few passwords are typed more than once per
day.
If we wait until the client PPL has ﬁlled the same
product, measured for clients older than 30 days, allows us to
estimate the number of password accounts that the average

010203040506001234567Age of ClientSites per password00.050.10.150.20.250.30.352468101214>=16Sites Sharing PasswordFraction of Passwords< 30 bitsAverage> 60 bitsWWW 2007 / Track: Security, Privacy, Reliability, and EthicsSession: Passwords and Phishing661Site
aol.com
bebo.com
ebay.co.uk
ebay.com
google.com
hi5.com
live.com
match.com
msn.com
myspace.com
passport.net
paypal.com
yahoo.co.jp
yahoo.com
youtube.com

# PRE reports

Avg. mins

(thousands)

between logins

4.5
4.8
5.8
7.8
21.0
5.2

120.2

3.7
9.0
36.2
10.9
13.6
8.6
91.1
5.6

7565
6633
6961
8043
6749
5558
5937
9351
11290
4060
13770
8447
4310
4232
12482

Table 1: The 20 most commonly used login sites order
by frequency.

Figure 8 shows the distribution of password strengths for a
number of sites. These are the New York Times, PayPal, Fi-
delity and Microsoft’s Outlook Web Access (a web interface
that allows Microsoft employees access to email and calen-
dar information). Observe that there is a huge diﬀerence
between the NY Times passwords (average strength 37.86)
where users are merely protecting a newspaper subscription,
and Microsoft OWA (average strength 51.36) where employ-
ees are forced to choose strong passwords to protect the cor-
porate network.

Figure 8: Histogram of password bitstrengths at various
sites. The strength appears to be a function of the users’
perceived importance of the site. New York Times sub-
scription passwords (average bitstrength 37.86) are no-
ticeable weaker than the average over all sites (average
bitstrength 40.54), while PayPal and Fidelity (average
bitstrengths 42.04 and 39.92) are stronger. Microsoft
OWA, which mandates strong password rules has the
highest (average bitstrength 51.36).

3.3.2 Password Type Analysis

The password bitstrengths allow us to determine the
length of the password and the number of character types it
includes. By tabulating all possible password lengths from
7 to 16 (no passwords shorter than length 7 generate en-
tries in the PPL, and the realtime locator FIFO is length
16) and all combinations of the 4 diﬀerent types we ﬁnd a
unique mapping between the quantized password strength

Figure 5: Distribution of logins during the week.

Figure 6: Distribution of logins along the day.

3.3 Password Strength Analysis

3.3.1 Bitstrength analysis

We next examine the strength of passwords that users
choose and how it varies with site. Recall that each PRE
contains a quantized bit strength, PwdStr, for the password
being re-used. This was calculated as log2((alph. size)len).
The alphabet size is the sum of the sizes of the diﬀerent
types of characters. These types and sizes are lowercase
(26), uppercase (26), digits (10) and special (22). Thus a 9
character password that contains both upper and lower case
characters and digits would have bitstrength log2(629) ≈
53.59.

Figure 7: Distribution of logins for amazon at diﬀerent
countries: USA, Japan and UK.

SuMoTuWdThFrSa051015204kids.tvadultfriendfinder.comamazon.combankofamerica.comchase.com% traffic 2am 6am10am 2pm 6pm10pm024684kids.tvadultfriendfinder.comamazon.combankofamerica.comchase.com% traffic 2am 6am10am 2pm 6pm10pm02468amazon.co.jpamazon.co.ukamazon.com% traffictime (PST)051015202530354045502030405060708090Bit StrengthPercentNY TimesAveragePaypalFidelityOWAWWW 2007 / Track: Security, Privacy, Reliability, and EthicsSession: Passwords and Phishing662Figure 9: Diﬀerent types of passwords as a function of
length averaged across all sites. Observe that a clear ma-
jority of all passwords are lower case letters only. PIN’s,
or passwords that are purely numeric, account for about
20 % of passwords (note that we did not record numeric
passwords of length 7 or less). Alphanumeric passwords,
consisting of upper case, lower case and digits constitute
small portion. A tiny minority of passwords are strong,
in the sense of containing upper, lower, digits and special
characters.

and length, type. This allows us to analyze not merely the
strengths of passwords but also the types.

Figure 9 shows the percent of passwords that are of a
particular type as a function of length (averaged across all
login sites). We already know from Section 3.3.1 that users
choose weak passwords, but Figure 9 breaks this down even
further. We plot, as a function of length, the fraction with
lowercase only, lowercase and digits, lowercase, uppercase
and digits and all four types. Note the fractions do not pre-
cisely sum to one as we have omitted rare combinations for
clarity (e.g. passwords that contain only digits and special
characters but no upper or lower case letters are extremely
rare). What is remarkable is that passwords containing only
lowercase letters dominate at all lengths. Even as users per-
ceive the need, or are forced, to use stronger passwords, it
appears that they use longer lowercase passwords and use
uppercase and special characters hardly at all.

Figure 10 repeats the calculation, but restricts to Pay-
pal passwords only. Again the trend is very pronounced:
lowercase only passwords dominate overwhelmingly. Even
for passwords that are 13 characters long, lowercase-only
accounts for 78% of the cases. The situation appears to
be changed only when a site forces password policies that
use a greater number of types. Figure 11 show the plot for
Microsoft Outlook Web Access. Like many corporations,
Microsoft forces employees to choose strong passwords and
codiﬁes certain passwords strength requirements.
In this
case passwords that employ both upper and lower case and
special characters account for non-negligible fractions of the
passwords. This accords well with the ﬁnding of [9] where
very few users used a special character unless instructed to
do so.

3.3.3 Password Forgetting

People forget passwords a lot. In the case of Yahoo logins
to user accounts generally occur at https://login.yahoo.
com while forgotten passwords, new registrations etc occur
at https://edit.yahoo.com. Table 2 shows the number of
PRE reports listing various Yahoo edit URLs as the primary

Figure 10: Diﬀerent types of Paypal Passwords. The
most common types of passwords follow the average
trend (as shown in Figure 9) quite closely, with the ex-
ception that numeric passwords are less common.

Figure 11: Diﬀerent types of Microsoft Outlook Web
Access Passwords. The most common types of passwords
follow the average trend (as shown in Figure 9) quite
closely, with the exception that numeric passwords are
less common.

Figure 12: Number of previously unseen password URLs
visited by new clients as a function of time. Observe that
the number of new sites plateaus relatively quickly.

67891011121300.10.20.30.40.50.60.70.80.91Password Length% PasswordsDigitsLowercaseAlphaNumericStrong67891011121300.10.20.30.40.50.60.70.80.91Password Length% PasswordsDigitsLowercaseAlphaNumericStrong67891011121300.10.20.30.40.50.60.70.80.91Password Length% PasswordsDigitsLowercaseAlphaNumericStrong02040608010002468% usersavg # new sites per additional userWWW 2007 / Track: Security, Privacy, Reliability, and EthicsSession: Passwords and Phishing663URL. If we take the numbers at change pw, eval forgot
pw and forgot pwex as a reasonable approximation to the
number of users who forgot passwords we get 2149, out of a
total of 50.1k PRE reports against the main login site. This
implies 4.28% of Yahoo users forgot their passwords over a
three month period. Also observe that combined visitors
to the password change and reset pages (2149) amounted
to 60% of the visitors to the new registration page eval
register. Observe that all of the instances of users typing
passwords to perform administrative functions amounts to
15% of the number of logins (i.e. sum of all lines of Table 2
except the ﬁrst as a percent of the ﬁrst).

https://login.yahoo.com
https://edit.yahoo.com/config/eval register
https://edit.yahoo.com/config/change pw
https://edit.yahoo.com/v/full
https://edit.yahoo.com/config/register
https://edit.yahoo.com/config/login verify2
https://edit.yahoo.com/config/eval forgot pw
https://edit.yahoo.com/config/id check
https://edit.yahoo.com/v/recv
https://edit.yahoo.com/config/forgot opt
https://edit.yahoo.com/config/delete user
https://edit.yahoo.com/config/login
https://edit.yahoo.com/config/forgot pwex
https://edit.yahoo.com/config/child register
https://edit.yahoo.com/config/child trap
https://edit.yahoo.com/config/mail
https://edit.yahoo.com
https://edit.yahoo.com/config/mail mev
https://edit.yahoo.com/config/parent verify
https://edit.yahoo.com/v/send
https://edit.yahoo.com/config/set profile
https://edit.yahoo.com/config/forgot pw.html
https://edit.yahoo.com/config/edit account

50147
3524
1888
668
546
274
218
127
123
117
100
73
43
13
7
5
3
2
2
2
1
1
1

Table 2: Users appear to forget passwords and perform
other administrative functions a lot. For the example
of Yahoo, password change operations occurred 15 % as
frequently as sign-in operations.

3.4 Interesting Sites

3.4.1 Phishing Sites

We had access to a list of phishing sites that were active
during a three week period toward the end of the study.
These sites were determined and veriﬁed to be phishing by
a third party vendor. There was an average of 436k clients
during this three week period. We recorded 101 PRE reports
listing one of the veriﬁed phishing sites as the primary URL.
This implies that the client has typed at the phishing site
a password previously used at another site on the user’s
PPL, which is a fairly good indication that the user has
been “phished.” We can use this to get an estimate of the
annualized fraction of the population being phished as

101 × 365
436000 × 21

≈ 0.00403.

Thus the data indicates that on the order of 0.4% of the
population falls victim to a phishing attack a year.

3.4.2

Self-maintained Routers

We found a total of 1203 PRE reports listing http://192.
168.0.1, http://192.168.1.1 or http://192.168.2.1 as
the primary URL. These addresses are used almost exclu-
sively for router setup pages. Since we have 544k clients,

this indicates that roughly 0.2% of users maintain their own
router, have a non-empty password (since addresses of the
form http://192.168.*.* are not accessible from the out-
side network this is a common practice), and logged in at
least once during the period of our study. Since many users
will conﬁgure a router once, and seldom need to login again,
the actual percent who maintain their routers is probably
much higher.

3.4.3 How many login URLs are there?

A partial list of the frequency with which URLs appeared
as the primary URL in a PRE report was given in Table 1. If
we compile the full table of frequencies we ﬁnd a huge range
of login frequencies. From login.live.com which occurs
120k times to 103978 distinct URLs each of which occurred
once. Call Nr the number of distinct URLs that appear
r times as primary URL of a PRE report. Since we have
observed a certain set of clients for a limited period it is
natural to wonder how accurate a picture this data gives
us of the entire universe of login URLs. It is reasonable to
infer that the most popular sites, listed in Table 1, would
remain the most popular if we had 2, 10 or 100 times as
many clients. But, how many more new login URLs might
we ﬁnd?

(cid:80)

The standard means of estimating the probability mass of
unseen species in a limited observation is the Good-Turing
estimate [8]. From the full version of Table 1 we have N =
rNr = 1320515 and N1 = 103978. Thus the Turing-Good
estimate [8] of the amount of the probability mass missing
is N1/N ≈ 0.079 or 7.9%. This tells us that our estimate of
the distribution of login frequencies is reasonably accurate,
in that the bulk of the mass has been captured.

So, if the probability mass of the unseen urls is around
7.9%, can we estimate how many sites are unseen? A similar
question is “how many new sites are added for each new
user we add?”. Figure 12 shows the number of previously
unseen password URLs visited by new clients as a function
of number of users considered. The ﬁgure was obtained by
considering only a (varying size) partial subset of the users.
Observe that the number of new sites plateaus relatively
quickly: at the user base we had in the experiment, each of
the last few users add only about 1.3 new sites, down from
more than seven for the ﬁrst 1% of the clients.

Extrapolating from the existing users to obtain the actual
number of login sites is much trickier than estimating the
overall probability mass. Efron and Fisher [4] use a Poisson
distribution of the frequencies and derive an estimate

∞(cid:88)

∆(t) =

(−1)r−1Nrtr,

r=1

where t is the size of a new sample relative to the size of
the existing sample. For example ∆(1/2) would be the esti-
mate of the number of unseen URLs to be expected in sam-
ple that included half as many PRE reports as our existing
sample. Using our PRE report date we ﬁnd ∆(1) ≈ 80811,
with a standard deviation of 428, meaning that a second
sample would be expected to turn up 80k new login URLs
previously unseen. Unfortunately the estimate for ∆(t) is
unstable for t > 1, hence we cannot estimate beyond that
with any accuracy.

WWW 2007 / Track: Security, Privacy, Reliability, and EthicsSession: Passwords and Phishing664Acknowledgements: the authors thank Geoﬀ Hulten,
Raghava Kashyapa, Steve Miller, Anthony Penta and Steve
Rehfuss for enormous help in acquiring and analyzing the
data.

6. REFERENCES
[1] http://www.rsasecurity.com.
[2] http://www.passwordresearch.com.
[3] A. Adams and M. A. Sasse. Users are not the Enemy.

Comm. ACM, 1999.

[4] B. Efron and R. Thisted. Estimating the number of
unknown species: How many words did Shakespeare
know? Biometrika, 1976.

[5] D. V. Klein. Foiling the Cracker: A Survey of, and

Improvements to, Password Security. Usenix Security
Workshop, 1990.

[6] F.T.Grampp and R. H. Morris. UNIX Operating

System Security. Bell System Tech. Jorunal, 1984.

[7] E. Gaber, P. Gibbons, Y. Matyas, and A. Mayer. How
to make personalized web browsing simple, secure and
anonymous. Proc. Finan. Crypto ’97.

[8] W. Gale. Good-Turing Smoothing Without Tears.

Statistics Research Reports from AT&T Laboratories
94.5, AT&T Bell Laboratories, 1994.

[9] J. Yan and A. Blackwell and R. Anderson and A.

Grant. Password Memorability and Security:
Empirical Results. IEEE Security & Privacy, 2004.

[10] Jeﬀerson Wells Inc. Microsoft Phishing Filter Feature

in Internet Explorer 7 and Windows Live Toolbar.
2006. http://www.jeffersonwells.com/
client audit reports/Microsoft PF IE7
IEToolbarFeature Privacy Audit 20060728.pdf.

[11] Anti-Phishing Working Group.

http://www.antiphishing.org.

[12] R. Morris and K. Thompson. Password Security: A

Case History. Comm. ACM, 1979.

[13] B. Ross, C. Jackson, N. Miyake, D. Boneh, and J. C.

Mitchell. Stronger password authentication using
browser extensions. Proceedings of the 14th Usenix
Security Symposium, 2005.

[14] M. E. Russinovich and D. A. Solomon. Microsoft

Windows Internals. Microsoft Press, 2005.

4. RELATED WORK

The subject of the use of passwords, and alternatives, for
authentication has been analyzed at length in the computer
security literature. However, web users’ password habits
have received far less attention. An early study of users’
password habits on a UNIX time sharing system is [12].
Morris and Thompson examined various attacks on pass-
word systems, and compile a study of 3289 passwords gath-
ered from many users. They found that 86% of the pass-
words were extremely weak: being too short, containing
lowercase letters only, digits only or a combination of the
two, or being easily found in dictionaries or lists of names.
The results we present in Section 3.3 in some sense update
and extend this work with much more data. While much
has changed since 1979 (e.g. a minimum of 6 characters is
very common) it is just as true that many users appear to
choose the weakest possible password, unless forced to do
otherwise.

An experiment by Grampp and Morris [6] found that weak
passwords, such as names followed by a single digit, were in
widespread use in a number of machines they examined in
a corporate network. Klein [5] reported being able to crack
about 25% of passwords in use, again on a Unix system,
by brute force attack. Adams and Sasse [3] surveyed users
about password memorability, and also conclude that choos-
ing secure passwords that are memorable is proving a diﬃ-
cult task for many users. Our ﬁndings on password strength
reinforce and extend these reports.

Yan et al.

[9] performed a more recent study of pass-
word memorability and security. The survey involved 288
students; a third were asked to choose a password (given
certain password rules), a third were assigned random pass-
words, and a third were asked to choose a password using a
mnemonic based on a phrase. Among their ﬁndings were
that the randomly assigned and phrase based passwords
were similarly to crack by dictionary attacks, but the phrase
based passwords were signiﬁcantly easier to remember.

There have been numerous surveys of user password
habits that employ questionnaires. A good synopsis of re-
cent surveys is [2]. This is a very useful compendium of user
responses on questions of their password use, re-use, and
forgetting habits as well as a source of password policies at
major institutions. Most of the data in [2] is obtained by
surveying users. By contrast our study measures what they
actually do, rather what they say they do. Further, at 544k
participants, we have more than 100 times more data than
most of the existing surveys.

5. CONCLUSION

The data allows us to measure for the ﬁrst time aver-
age password habits for a large population of web users.
Many facts previously suspected, can be conﬁrmed using
large scale measurements rather than anecdotal experience
or relatively small user surveys. The results particularly con-
ﬁrm the conventional wisdom about the large number and
poor quality of user passwords. In addition passwords are
re-used and forgotten a great deal. We are able to estimate
the number of accounts that users maintain, the number of
passwords they type per day, and the percent of phishing
victims in the overall population.

WWW 2007 / Track: Security, Privacy, Reliability, and EthicsSession: Passwords and Phishing665