Plurality: A Context-Aware Personalized Tagging System

Robert Graham

Dep’t of Computer Science

Texas A&M University

College Station, TX 77843
rbgraham@tamu.edu

Brian Eoff

Dep’t of Computer Science

Texas A&M University

College Station, TX 77843

bde@cs.tamu.edu

James Caverlee

Dep’t of Computer Science

Texas A&M University

College Station, TX 77843
caverlee@cs.tamu.edu

ABSTRACT
We present the design of Plurality,1 an interactive tagging
system. Plurality’s modular architecture allows users to au-
tomatically generate high-quality tags over Web content, as
well as over archival and personal content typically beyond
the reach of existing Web 2.0 social tagging systems. Three
of the salient features of Plurality are: (i) its self-learning
and feedback-sensitive capabilities based on a user’s per-
sonalized tagging style; (ii) its leveraging of the collective
intelligence of existing social tagging services; and (iii) its
context-awareness for optimizing tag suggestions, e.g., based
on spatial or temporal features.

Categories and Subject Descriptors: H.3.1 Information
Storage and Retrieval: Content Analysis and Indexing

General Terms: Algorithms, Design

Keywords: tags, social annotation, context-sensitive, per-
sonalization

1.

INTRODUCTION

Tags – words or phrases that serve as informal metadata
for objects like Web pages, images, and videos – have grown
in popularity and purpose in the last few years. Tagging as
a phenomenon corresponds with a Web 2.0 mentality that
users can create not only content but a richer, more adap-
tive and responsive way to navigate and search both existing
and new media. Widespread social tagging promises bet-
ter and more intuitive information access through tag-based
browsing (e.g., [1]), search (e.g., [4]), and new applications
centered around the emergent semantics inherent in the ag-
gregation of the tagging habits of thousands (or millions)
of users (e.g., [2]). In contrast to traditional metadata an-
notation by experts, tagging can overcome less precision in
individual tags (e.g., through misspellings, spam tags, and
oﬀ-topic tags) through the sheer volume of tags that can be
generated for an object.

Our research goal is to study how the underlying tag gen-
eration processes can be applied in domains either lacking
a wide-scale audience (which are typically assumed in Web
2.0 social tagging contexts) or lacking a tagging-savvy audi-
ence. How can we take advantage of new approaches to tag

1http://faculty.cs.tamu.edu/caverlee/plurality

Copyright is held by the author/owner(s).
WWW 2008, April 21–25, 2008, Beijing, China.
ACM 978-1-60558-085-2/08/04.

browsing, tag search, and emerging tag-based information
access approaches over documents currently “left out” of the
Web 2.0 social tagging phenomenon? For example, few, if
any, of the local documents on a user’s desktop are exposed
to a Web-scale audience for tagging, and users are typically
resistant to go back through their archives to manually ap-
ply tags. Similarly, a huge amount of untagged content can
be found in internal company email and document sharing
networks, archival content in digital libraries, and even on
the Web, where most content has yet to be tagged. Even
for Web content that has already been tagged, a particular
user’s personalized view over the Web content may not be
reﬂected in the existing tags.

Crawler

Filter

RDBMS

Tag Ranking

Solr

Context
Analyzer

Personalizer

Web Interface

Figure 1: High-level system architecture for Plurality

2. DESIGN AND ARCHITECTURE

With these challenges in mind, we introduce Plurality – an
interactive tagging recommendation system (see Figure 1).
Plurality is implemented using Apache’s Solr – a web ser-
vices stack built over the Lucene search engine – to pro-
vide real-time tag suggestions. Solr is ﬁnding increasing use
and traction among institutional users seeking to create in-
house solutions for indexing large catalogs of content; it is
appealing as a tagging solution since it supports web ser-
vices and lightweight web interfaces for easily adapting Plu-
rality to both institutional and personal settings with only
slight modiﬁcations. Building on previous work studying

1165WWW 2008 / Poster PaperApril 21-25, 2008 · Beijing, ChinaBlog Entry

Blog Entry

Google is doing an online payment system, 

but will not be competing with PayPal.

Maybe the high price of oil isn't such a 

bad thing. "When you look closely, it is hard to 

know what effect, exactly, oil prices 

have on the economy."

Suggestions

Jason Kottke's tags

Suggestions

Jason Kottke's tags

paypal money
shopping ﬁnance

banking ebay
ﬁnancial bank
business tools

accounts payment

online auction

paypal ecommerce

google

oil economics
auto car iraq

politics automotive

cars engine

greenspan war

motor bush
ﬁnance news

oil economics

Figure 2: Blog entries tagged using Plurality and com-
pared with the blogger’s original tags. Obtained with
permission from Jason Kottke, kottke.org.

the automatic generation of tags (e.g., [3],[5]), Plurality is
distinguished by three salient features:
1. Leveraging Existing Tags: To bootstrap the tagging
process, Plurality can be seeded with already tagged docu-
ments from an existing tagging service. In our ﬁrst proto-
type, we have crawled the popular social bookmarking site
del.icio.us and collected over 280,000 tags. The crawler is
built in Python and is designed to allow for ﬂexible adapta-
tions to other tagging resources. The crawled documents are
ﬁltered through a spam detector, normalized via stemming
and HTML stripping, and indexed by Lucene. In our ini-
tial design, tag recommendations for an untagged document
are generated by ﬁnding the top-10 most similar documents,
ranking their tags based on TF-IDF measures across the tag
corpus and on the user’s tag proﬁle. After the initial boot-
strapping, the system can persist and grow without further
use of the crawler. Figure 2 shows an example of Plurality’s
tag suggestions for two posts by the proliﬁc blogger Jason
Kottke versus the actual tags assigned by Kottke himself.
2. Self-Learning and Feedback: Relying on existing
tags provides a baseline which Plurality reﬁnes through user-
speciﬁc learning and feedback. A user’s personal tagging
style can vary in syntax (e.g., tagging a document about
Al Gore with “al-gore” versus “AlGore”), in viewpoint (e.g.,
“nobel prize winner” versus “presidential runner-up”), in goal
(e.g., “todo”, “homework”), and in many other dimensions.
In our ﬁrst prototype of Plurality, we apply traditional infor-
mation retrieval techniques and specialized rule-based heuris-
tics to model a user’s tagging style based on a history of the
user’s tags and the user’s interactions with the system. Fig-
ure 3 shows a sample user feedback screenshot. Plurality
recommends a set of potentially relevant tags; based on the
user’s preference, the user can accept the recommended tags,
reject the tags, or add their own tags; each of these decisions
is reﬂected in an update to the user’s tag proﬁle.
3. Context-Sensitivity: When suggesting tags for a doc-
ument, the context of both the document and the corpus
against which tag suggestions are drawn are critically im-
portant. In Plurality, users can manually select a relevant
corpus to compare against – e.g., all of the crawled del.icio.us
documents, only the user’s tagged documents – or select cus-
tom context ﬁlters based on temporal or spatial features.
For example, the Figure 2 blog entry about “the high price
of oil” was written in 2005. Plurality’s tag suggestions in
this case are drawn from a recent crawl of del.icio.us, so
some of the tag suggestions are temporally relevant to the

Figure 3:
text from A List Apart’s RSS feed, alistapart.com.

Incorporating user feedback. A snippet of

original blog entry, e.g., “iraq”, “war”, and “bush.” One of
the goals of the Plurality project is to tag archival content;
hence, a 1970s document referencing the “high price of oil”
could be tagged “jimmy carter” and “opec.” To capture this
contextual information, Plurality uses custom time and lo-
cation regular-expressions to extract the creation date of a
document and the location information (if available). Based
on these contextual cues, Plurality supports tag suggestions
based on a user-speciﬁc window around a particular date, or
with respect to a user-speciﬁed geographic region.

3. CLOSING REMARKS

We have presented Plurality, an interactive tagging system
that couples the collective intelligence of existing tag-based
resources with a personalized context and feedback-sensitive
interface. In our ongoing work, we have deployed Plurality
internally at Texas A&M, and we are collecting usage and
tagging data to evaluate the eﬀectiveness of Plurality both
in terms of application-speciﬁc tag quality (e.g., for search
or browsing) and in terms of user satisfaction. Our research
on Plurality continues along several directions. First, we
will continue enhancing the capability and eﬃciency of the
system through the incorporation of tag and document clus-
tering, as well as the further personalization of results. We
are also interested in continuing to explore context and its
eﬀects on tagging and tag selection – what contextual cues
are most important to users?

4. REFERENCES
[1] S. Bao, G. Xue, X. Wu, Y. Yu, B. Fei, and Z. Su. Optimizing

web search using social annotations. In WWW, 2007.

[2] C. R. Brooks and N. Montanez. Improved annotation of the

blogosphere via autotagging and hierarchical clustering. In
WWW, 2006.

[3] P. A. Chirita, S. Costache, S. Handschuh, and W. Nejdl. Ptag:

Large scale automatic generation of personalized annotation
tags for the web. In WWW, 2007.

[4] R. Li, S. Bao, Y. Yu, B. Fei, and Z. Su. Towards eﬀective

browsing of large scale social annotations. In WWW, 2007.

[5] G. Mishne. Autotag: A collaborative approach to automated

tag assignment for weblog posts. In WWW, 2006.

1166WWW 2008 / Poster PaperApril 21-25, 2008 · Beijing, China