Incentivizing High-quality User-Generated Content

Arpita Ghosh
Yahoo! Research

Santa Clara, CA, USA

arpita@yahoo-inc.com

Preston McAfee
Yahoo! Research
Burbank, CA, USA

mcafee@yahoo-inc.com

ABSTRACT
We model the economics of incentivizing high-quality user
generated content (UGC), motivated by settings such as on-
line review forums, question-answer sites, and comments on
news articles and blogs. We provide a game-theoretic model
within which to study the problem of incentivizing high qual-
ity UGC, in which contributors are strategic and motivated
by exposure. Our model has the feature that both the qual-
ity of contributions as well as the extent of participation is
determined endogenously in a free-entry Nash equilibrium.
The model predicts, as observed in practice, that if ex-
posure is independent of quality, there will be a ﬂood of
low quality contributions in equilibrium. An ideal mecha-
nism in this context would elicit both high quality and high
participation in equilibrium, with near-optimal quality as
the available attention diverges, and should be easily imple-
mentable in practice. We consider a very simple elimination
mechanism, which subjects each contribution to rating by
some number A of viewers, and eliminates any contributions
that are not uniformly rated positively. We construct and
analyze free-entry Nash equilibria for this mechanism, and
show that A can be chosen to achieve quality that tends to
optimal, along with diverging participation, as the number
of viewers diverges.

Categories and Subject Descriptors
J.4 [Computer Applications]: Social & Behavioral Sci-
ences

General Terms
Economics

Keywords
User generated content (UGC), Attention economics, Qual-
ity of online content, Game theory

1.

INTRODUCTION

User generated content (UGC) refers to a very wide
spectrum of online content generated by end-users, rang-
ing all the way from collaborative information sites like
Wikipedia, to question-answer forums and discussion boards

Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Com-
mittee (IW3C2). Distribution of these papers is limited to classroom use,
and personal use by others.
WWW 2011, March 28–April 1, 2011, Hyderabad, India.
ACM 978-1-4503-0632-4/11/03.

like Y!Answers and TripAdvisor, to reviews– product re-
views on Amazon or movie reviews on IMDB and Y!Movies,
or Yelp reviews– all the way to content on blogs and social
media like Facebook, as well as comments on blogs and news
articles as on Slashdot or Digg. On the one hand, user gener-
ated content constitutes a large fraction of the high-quality,
easily accessible content that makes the Web useful. On
the other hand, because there is no barrier to entry unlike
traditional publishing, it also attracts junk and spam.

The extent to which quality of contributions is an issue
varies widely across the broad spectrum of user generated
content: Wikipedia and some other crowdsourcing applica-
tions seem to attract largely high-quality content, while on
social media applications like Facebook and Twitter users
can control and personalize the source of the content they
see. The quality issue is more pertinent in the context of re-
views, such as product or service reviews, comments on news
articles or blog posts, and responses in discussion boards or
question-answer forums, which are more prone to poor qual-
ity content, and where users have little control over what
content they see. Why do some websites have great user
generated content (UGC), while others have awful content?
What incentives should a website manager employ to create
great UGC?

In this paper, we address this question from a game-
theoretic perspective. We employ a model with strategic
contributors, where the primary motivator of contrib-
utors is exposure, or viewer attention– a contributor is
motivated by the amount of exposure her content will
receive1. Without some connection between quality of
a contribution and amount of exposure, such exposure-
motivated contributors will ﬂood a site with low quality
contributions, as is indeed observed in practice.
Is there
a way to allocate the available attention from viewers
amongst the contributions– a mechanism– that encourages
high-quality contributions, while also maintaining a high
level of participation? An ideal mechanism is one which
produces only high quality equilibria with high levels of
participation, and is easily implementable in practice– for
instance, eliciting high quality equilibria should not rely
upon having a very precise estimate of quality.
In fact,
as the number of viewers increases, increasing the amount

1Note that this does not rely on any assumption about why
contributors seek greater exposure– it could be because of
a type of altruism (a contributor believes her contribution
is valuable, and wants it to beneﬁt the largest number), or
a contributor seeking the largest possible audience for self-
expression, or a host of other social-psychological factors.

WWW 2011 – Session: Monetization IMarch 28–April 1, 2011, Hyderabad, India137of available attention,
is there a simple mechanism that
elicits a near optimal quality of contributions in equilibrium?

Our Contributions. Our primary contribution is pro-
viding a game-theoretic model within which the design and
performance of mechanisms for incentivizing high-quality
user generated content can be analyzed. Our model has
the feature that both the quality of contributions, as well
as the number of contributors are endogenously determined
in a free-entry Nash equilibrium (§2). We emphasize the
endogenous choice to contribute– the problem of producing
UGC is not just the creation of high quality content, but
also encouraging the production of content, and a model
with exogenous participation misses a salient factor in most
UGC settings. While we restrict ourselves to a simple cost-
beneﬁt function for contributors in this paper, the general
framework we introduce could be useful in capturing a much
broader class of contributor motivations and design goals for
user generated content, see §7.

Our model predicts that unless the extent of exposure is
determined by the quality of a contribution there will be
a large number of low-quality contributions in a free-entry
equilibrium. A natural candidate mechanism based on
quality is a proportional mechanism, where the extent of ex-
posure (or the fraction of viewers who see the contribution)
is proportional to the rated quality of the contribution.
We show that these mechanisms improve over showing all
contributions equally, but are unable to produce very high
quality even as the number of potential viewers diverges, in
addition to requiring precise estimates of quality (§3). This
motivates us to analyze simple elimination mechanisms,
which subject contributions to rating by some small number
of viewers and reject contributions that are not uniformly
highly rated. We construct and analyze free entry Nash
equilibria for these mechanisms (§4.1) and show that there
is a tradeoﬀ between the quality of contributions and
the number of contributions, which can be controlled by
varying the stringency of the test of inclusion, that is,
the number of viewers who must rate the contribution as
high quality (§4.2).
In §4.3, we show that as the number
of viewers diverges, we can achieve both optimal quality
and a diverging number of contributions in equilibrium in
the limit, using these elimination mechanisms. Finally,
we show that we can do even better in settings where
limiting contributions might be acceptable: we prove that
the elimination mechanism combined with restricting the
number of displayed contributions permits the production
of a large number of near optimal contributions while also
sending the fraction of rejected content to zero in the limit.

Related Work. An entirely diﬀerent approach to the
design of human computation systems and user generated
content is based on identifying the social psychological mo-
tives, also called incentives, of contributors in these systems
and designing user interfaces and systems to better reward
those motives to encourage participation. There is a vast lit-
erature in social psychology that employs this approach, see
for example [6, 7]. A game-theoretic approach complements
this approach, and can also beneﬁt from this literature in
appropriately modeling cost and beneﬁt functions for con-
tributors.

There is a much smaller literature that addresses user
generated content and crowdsourcing from a game theoretic

perspective, see, for instance, [3, 2, 4]. To the best of our
knowledge, this literature has thus far largely addressed spe-
ciﬁc systems or websites; also, none of this work addresses
the issue of quality of user generated content, particularly in
a general framework.

There is a large and growing literature on incentives in
online reputation systems; for a survey, see [1], also [5]. Our
work diﬀers from this literature on reputation systems in
one important respect: we are concerned about rating the
quality of each individual piece of content, not the user that
produced it. On the one hand, our approach therefore does
not use all the possible information available to rate a con-
tribution (speciﬁcally, the identity of the creator). On the
other hand, independently judging each piece of content ir-
respective of the identity of the user who produced it helps
us avoid some of the most important problems in the context
of reputation systems, such as sybil-prooﬁng, white-washing
or cheaply creating new identities to shed bad reputation,
building up and then cashing in on high reputations, hi-
jacked reputations, and the thorny problem of translating
expertise from one topic to another. Thus our work comple-
ments the reputation system literature.

2. A MODEL

The main components of our model are as follows. There
are contributors, who produce content (such as a review for a
product or a comment on a news article), and viewers, who
consume, and possibly rate, the content. The generated
content is of varying quality, the ‘goodness’ of which can
be described by a one-dimensional value. Contributors de-
rive value from receiving viewer attention for their content–
which increases with the amount of attention received, and
incur a cost to producing content, which is increasing in
quality (see §7 for a discussion). Contributors are strategic:
they make the decision of whether or not to participate, i.e.,
whether to generate content, as well as what quality content
to produce, selﬁshly to maximize their utility. Viewers are
non-strategic and simply provide utility to contributors and
possibly rate their content.

A mechanism in our setting is a way to distribute the
available viewer attention amongst the participating con-
tributors, possibly based on the number of participating con-
tributors as well as the quality of each contribution. We will
be interested in simple, easily implementable, mechanisms
that incentivize high-quality participation by contributors.
We now formally describe the model.

Content Model. We model the goodness of each con-
tribution, or unit of content, with a quality q. The value q
is measured in units such that the probability that a viewer
would answer the question “Is this good content?” is q. This
means the quality q ∈ [0, 1].

Since the quality of a contribution q is deﬁned to be the
probability that a random viewer likes it, we can use viewer
votes (such as the standard ‘Thumbs Up/Down’ button) to
estimate q, so mechanisms incorporating the quality q can be
implemented (to diﬀerent degrees of accuracy) using viewer
votes.

Contributor Model. There is an inﬁnite2 pool of poten-
tial contributors, although the number of contributors who

2The equilibrium number of contributors will never be larger
than the number of viewers, as we will see, so inﬁnite really
only means as many potential contributors as viewers, which

WWW 2011 – Session: Monetization IMarch 28–April 1, 2011, Hyderabad, India138actually decide to generate content, i.e., the number of par-
ticipating contributors K, will be some ﬁnite number that
is endogenously determined by whether or not there are any
remaining proﬁts from participation. We emphasize the en-
dogenous choice to contribute– our model does not assume a
ﬁxed number of contributors; rather, the number of contrib-
utors is also determined by strategic choices based on the
available beneﬁt from participation.

Contributors decide whether or not to participate, and the

quality q of the content they will produce if participating.

The cost incurred by a contributor depends on the quality
of content she chooses to produce: a contributor can produce
content of quality q at a cost c(q), which is increasing in q
(i.e., producing higher quality content is more costly). We
make the following assumptions on the cost function c:

1. c(0) > 0: Participating, even with 0 quality content,

is strictly costlier than not participating.

2. limq→1 c(q) =∞: Perfect quality is inﬁnitely costly,
i.e., making every viewer happy is nearly impossible.

3. c(q) and c(cid:3)

(q) are ﬁnite for all q strictly less than 1.
(We note that this is a weaker condition than the stan-
dard assumption of convex cost functions.)

An example function satisfying these conditions is c(q) =
c(1 − q)

−r, r > 0.

Contributors derive beneﬁt from receiving attention from
viewers; we assume that this beneﬁt is directly proportional
to, and in fact without loss of generality (by appropriately
scaling the cost functions), exactly equal to the amount of
attention received. Let K be the number of participat-
ing contributors, producing content of quality q1, q2, . . . , qK .
Suppose there are M viewers. The distribution of the to-
tal available attention from these M viewers amongst the K
participating contributors is determined by the mechanism
M being used to display the content. The beneﬁt derived
by a contributor i is exactly its allocation or share of the
available attention awarded to it by the mechanism, which
we denote by V (qi, q−i). It is reasonable to assume that V
is non-increasing in K, i.e., the share of attention does not
increase (holding quality constant) if the total number of
competing contributors increases.

A contributor i’s utility from generating content of quality
qi is the diﬀerence between her beneﬁt, which also depends
on the number and possibly the quality of other contribu-
tions q−i, and her cost:

πi(qi, q−i) = Vi(qi, q−i) − c(qi).

Solution Concept. We will be interested in the levels
of participation and qualities that occur in an equilibrium.
However, we need to be careful about the notion of equi-
librium we use – since we did not assume a ﬁxed number
of participating contributors, the equilibrium concept will
need to account for the fact that participation is endoge-
nously determined. We use the solution concept of a free
entry Nash equilibrium: as in a standard Nash equilibrium,
the quality chosen by each participating contributor must
be a best response to the qualities chosen by the remain-
ing participants. In addition, because the choice of whether
to participate or not (which is distinct from participating

is precisely the situation in UGC because of open participa-
tion.

with q = 0 because c(0) > 0) is a strategic choice as well,
the number of participants K must be such that while each
current participant derives a nonnegative payoﬀ, no further
contributors can beneﬁt from joining. Consider a symmetric
equilibrium, where the only relevant quantities are the num-
ber of participants K and their common chosen quality q∗3.
Then, K must be such that the proﬁts with K participants
π(q∗

(K), K) ≥ 0 , but π(q∗

(K + 1), K + 1) ≤ 0.

For simplicity, we use the continuous version of this deﬁ-
nition of the number of participants K: instead of ﬁnding an
integer K, we will simply solve for K satisfying π(q∗, K) = 0
(which need not be an integer), and choose q∗
to be the best
response to this ‘number’ of participants4.

Definition 2.1

(Free entry Nash equilibrium).

Fix N . Deﬁne a “free entry Nash equilibrium in pure
strategies” to be values (K, q∗

) so that

• q∗

maximizes π(q, q∗, K): q∗

is a Nash equilibrium
quality choice given the number of participants K and
their chosen qualities q∗
is a best response to
K−1 other participants contributing content of quality
q∗

,i.e., q∗

.

• π(q∗, K) = 0: The values (K, q∗

) are such that each
participant’s payoﬀ from participating is zero, i.e., it
is individually rational for each of the K contributors
to participate, but no more potential contributors can
derive a positive payoﬀ by participating (recall that we
assumed that Vi, the share of attention to the ith con-
tributor is decreasing in K).

That is, a free entry Nash equilibrium consists of an endoge-
nously determined number of contributors K and a quality
q∗
such that no more contributors want to participate, and
no participating contributor wants to deviate from her cho-
sen quality (or from her decision to participate).

3. MECHANISM CHOICE AND EQUILIB-

RIUM QUALITY

We now investigate the impact of the choice of mechanism

on qualities generated in equilibrium.

First consider the situation in many UGC forums, which
display all comments or reviews irrespective of quality. A
simple model for this is to say that contributors are as-
signed at random to receive views from the M viewers.5.
If K contributors provide content, each contributor receives
an equal share of attention, which is M/K. An individual
3While equilibria for arbitrary mechanisms that depend in
an arbitrary way upon the qualities can indeed be asym-
metric, we will focus here on symmetric equilibria where all
participating contributors choose the same quality. In fact,
for all but one mechanism that we consider, the only possi-
ble equilibria are indeed symmetric; we discuss asymmetric
equilibria separately for that mechanism.
4The actual number of participants corresponding to this
equilibrium will be the nearest integer smaller than K, since
Vi decreases with K; the equilibrium quality q∗
is the best
response for (cid:6)K(cid:7), rather than K, participants. We use the
continuous version since integrality of K will be unimportant
for us.
5Actual sites vary in how content is displayed– some sites
display oldest ﬁrst, while others show newest ﬁrst. We model
display order as random purely for simplicity, and because
it captures independence from quality.

WWW 2011 – Session: Monetization IMarch 28–April 1, 2011, Hyderabad, India139contributor receives payoﬀ M/K − c(q), which is uniquely
maximized by setting q = 0. The total number of contribu-
tions at which contributors are indiﬀerent to joining satisﬁes
M/K − c(0) = 0, or K = M/c(0) (i.e., the K + 1th con-
− c(0)
tributor does not want to join because his payoﬀ M
K+1
will be negative).
Thus this baseline mechanism has a unique equilibrium
with q∗
it produces the maximum
possible number of contributions under individual rational-
ity, all with the worst possible quality q∗
= 0, in equilibrium.

= 0, and K = M

c(0) :

A Proportional Mechanism. The baseline mechanism
demonstrates that ignoring the quality of contributions will
lead to poor equilibrium qualities. To induce high quality,
therefore, the quality of a contribution must be used to de-
cide what share of the attention it receives.

Some sites display contributions in decreasing order of es-
timated quality based on viewer ratings. It is reasonable to
assume that viewers scan the page from top to bottom, so
that contributions higher up in the order receive more atten-
tion. This suggests a natural candidate mechanism for anal-
ysis, namely a proportional mechanism: suppose we have
some way to divide the total attention from the M view-
ers proportional to the quality of each contribution qi. The
proportional mechanism gives the ith contribution a share
qi(cid:2) K

of the M units of attention.

j=1 qj
As we show below, the proportional mechanism is indeed
an improvement over the baseline and solves the problem of
eliminating content with q = 0, but the equilibrium quality
can never approach 1, even in the limit as the number of
viewers goes to inﬁnity:

Proposition 3.1. Every participant chooses equilibrium
quality q∗ > 0 in the proportional mechanism for all M ;
however, limM→∞ q∗ < 1.

Proof. Consider a vector of qualities q1, . . . , qK ; the pay-

oﬀ of the ith contributor is

πi(qi) =M

qi +

− c(qi).

j(cid:6)=i qj

(cid:2)

qi

First note that with this payoﬀ function, qi = 0 is never a
best response to any set of remaining qualities, and therefore
will never occur in a (symmetric or asymmetric) equilibrium:
if qj > 0 for any j (cid:8)= i, i’s share of M is 0, and her payoﬀ is
negative since c(0) > 0, so not participating is a proﬁtable
If all contributors choose qj = 0, irrespective
deviation.
of the allocation computed with qj = 0 ∀ j, there is some
contributor who can strictly improve her payoﬀ by increasing
q to  since this increases her share to 1, i.e., get all the
available attention, which is clearly a proﬁtable deviation
for M > c(0) (if M < c(0), there are no participants, so the
statement still holds). Therefore no contributor ever chooses
0 quality in an equilibrium.

Now we prove the second part of the claim. Consider
a symmetric equilibrium, where there are K participants
each generating content of quality q∗
. In a free entry Nash
equilibrium, the values K, q∗
need to simultaneously satisfy

q∗

M

= arg max π(q) = arg max M
q∗
Kq∗ − c(q∗

) = 0, or c(q∗

) =

q

q + (K − 1)q∗ − c(q);

M
K

.

(The ﬁrst condition says that no participant can beneﬁt by

choosing a quality diﬀerent from q∗
(for instance, by increas-
ing q∗
slightly to get a greater share of attention), given that
the remaining K−1 participants have chosen q∗
. The second
condition says that a potential K + 1th participant would
derive negative payoﬀ and so would not want to participate;
in addition, it is individually rational for each current con-
tributor to participate.)

The ﬁrst-order condition for q∗
M (K − 1)q∗

∂π(q)

∂q

=

q∗

K 2q∗2

(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)

to maximize π(q) is

− c(cid:3)

(q∗

) = 0,

or

q∗c(cid:3)

) = M (K − 1)/K 2.
(q∗
Dividing this by by c(q∗
) = M/K, we get
q∗c(cid:3)
(q∗
c(q∗)

(K − 1)

K

.

)

=

Since limq→1 c(q) =∞, lim q→1 log c(q) = ∞ as well. So
c(cid:3)
(q)/c(q), which is the derivative of log c, must go to inﬁnity
as well, while the right-hand side (K − 1)/K does not. So
we cannot have q → 1 in an equilibrium of the proportional
mechanism.

The proportional mechanism therefore improves upon the
baseline mechanism by disincentivizing q = 0, i.e., it elim-
inates the worst reviews. Ideally, we would like to be able
to drive the equilibrium qualities to 1 in the limit as the
number of viewers, M , diverges to inﬁnity; however, as we
saw above, this cannot be achieved with the proportional
mechanism.

In fact, the proportional mechanism has another diﬃculty:
it requires a precise estimation of the qualities qi, which
is challenging because obtaining a precise estimate requires
rating by a large number of viewers which itself contributes
to the utility, complicating the strategic choices. This dif-
ﬁculty is shared by another natural mechanism which dis-
plays only the contributions with the P highest qualities:
with perfect observation of quality, this mechanism induces
equilibrium qualities q∗
= c−1(M/P ) which tends to 1 as M
diverges. However, obtaining this high-quality equilibrium
requires accurate quality estimates and sequential evalua-
tion since otherwise one can cut quality and make higher
proﬁt but still be part of the top P . Also practically speak-
ing, enforcing a predetermined, quality-independent limit on
the number of displayed entries may not be desirable in all
UGC contexts, for instance discussion forums for issues or
comments on news, which is another reason to not use such
a mechanism.
3.1 An Elimination Mechanism

We now discuss a very simple mechanism Me that also
uses the quality of content, albeit diﬀerently from the pro-
portional mechanism, to determine a contribution’s share of
the total attention: each contribution is shown to (up to) A
viewers who vote yes or no on whether the content is good.
A unit of content is displayed only if some number B of the A
viewers vote yes. Once displayed, each such qualifying con-
tribution receives an equal share of the available attention;
this can be achieved in expectation by showing a diﬀerent
random permutation to each viewer. Note that if none of
the contributions qualify, i.e., receive the required B yeses,
no content is displayed to any viewers outside of those who
voted on the contributions.

WWW 2011 – Session: Monetization IMarch 28–April 1, 2011, Hyderabad, India140Observe that this elimination-based mechanism uses qual-
ities somewhat diﬀerently from the proportional mechanism:
the proportional mechanism used the relative values of the
qualities to decide on the allocation, whereas this mecha-
nism uses the absolute quality of each unit of content. So
in Mp , every contributor is guaranteed some nonzero share
of the attention, but the magnitude of the share depends
on the qualities generated by other contributors; in Me, a
contributor gets either no share at all, or a share that only
depends on the number of other qualifying contributors, and
which of these two happens depends only on her own choice
of quality. Note that Me does not require or rely on a pre-
cise estimate of qi (in fact, the description of Me does not
directly invoke the qi values at all).

There are two natural models, corresponding to diﬀerent
relative rates of content generation and viewer voting, within
which to analyze the strategic behavior of contributors under
the elimination mechanism Me.

• In the sequential model, a contributor can see how
many other contributors have participated and qual-
iﬁed so far.

• In the simultaneous model, a contributor can see how
many other contributors have participated so far, but
not whether they qualiﬁed to be displayed or not.

The sequential and simultaneous models capture diﬀerent
settings: sequential entry models the situation where ratings
come in quickly relative to the content (for instance, such
as the thumbs up/down ratings on comments on Y!News),
whereas simultaneous entry models a situation where the
viewer ratings come in slowly relative to contributions (for
instance, in a question-and-answer forum like Y!Answers, or
Yelp reviews). As we will see, this diﬀerence in whether or
not a contributor knows how many previous contributions
will eventually be displayed will aﬀect the strategic choice
facing each contributor, and correspondingly the equilibrium
qualities and number of participating contributors. How-
ever, much of the analysis, as well as the qualitative results,
are very similar for these models.

4. ANALYSIS OF Me
We now analyze equilibrium behavior in the elimination
mechanism Me. For simplicity (and want of space), we do
this under the following assumptions:

• B = A: A contribution must be approved of by each
viewer who rates it. This special case of Me has a
dramatically simpler analysis and as we will see, al-
lows adequate freedom to achieve the properties we
need, including sending the equilibrium qualities to 1
In practice, setting B < A is a better
in the limit.
choice since it is more robust to manipulation or error,
i.e., can withstand a voter who always votes a con-
tribution negatively either out of malicious intent or
random error. While we do not include the analysis
here, it is possible to choose B < A to achieve q∗ → 1.
• Let there be M viewers in addition to the viewers who
vote on content (of which there are no more than A
per contribution). We will assume that contributors
only derive utility from displaying to these M viewers.
This is a particularly reasonable assumption since we
will want A, the maximum number of votes required

per contribution, to be a vanishingly small fraction of
the total number of available viewers; we note though
that our analysis and results do extend to including
the utility from displaying to these (up to) A viewers
in the payoﬀs as well6.

• We will assume, to begin with, that the total amount
of attention brought to a page is independent of the
number of displayed contributions K (speciﬁcally, we
assume that the M viewers bring a total attention of
M ). We will generalize our results to a natural distri-
bution of attention within the population in §5, where
we allow the amount of attention from these M viewers
to grow with K.

In both the sequential and simultaneous models, the prob-
ability that a contributor who decides to participate with
quality q is chosen to be displayed is qA.
In the sequen-
tial model, contributors will choose q optimally under the
common belief that that they will be sharing attention with
K − 1 other contributions if displayed (recall that only the
number, and not the qualities, of other participants aﬀects
the ﬁnal share of attention for a qualifying contribution.)
In the simultaneous model, contributors will again choose q
optimally, but assuming that there are K − 1 other partic-
ipants (as opposed to K − 1 other contributions), of which
some random number will pass the A tests and be displayed.
The additional information in the sequential model changes
the payoﬀs and strategic behavior since it mitigates the ran-
domness in how many other contributors will be sharing at-
tention relative to the simultaneous model. We begin with
deriving the payoﬀs in both models.

Sequential Entry. In the sequential entry model, a con-
tributor can see, before contributing, how many contributors
have qualiﬁed so far. A free entry Nash equilibrium in the
sequential model is a pair of values (K, q∗
) where K is the
ﬁnal number of qualifying participants– that is, in this free
entry equilibrium, when a contributor arrives, she checks
whether there are already K qualifying contributors. If yes,
she does not generate any content; if there are fewer than K
qualifying contributors, she generates content with quality
q∗

.
By deﬁnition of q, the probability of a contribution qual-
ifying, i.e., receiving a yes vote from each of the A viewers,
is qA. Let M be the number of available viewers, and con-
sider a free entry equilibrium (K, q∗
). In this equilibrium,
every qualifying contributor receives attention M/K. Thus,
the expected payoﬀ of each participating contributor, who
qualiﬁes with probability q∗A

is

πseq(q∗, K) =V seq(q∗, K) − c(q) =

M q∗A

K

− c(q).

Simultaneous Entry. By deﬁnition of q, the probabil-
ity of a contribution qualifying, i.e., receiving a yes vote
from each of the A viewers, is qA. However, because more

6Including this utility only introduces an additional term of
− AqA in the payoﬀ π(q). The only diﬀerence is in the
1−qA
1−q
assumption on c we need: to prevent q∗
= 0 from being an
optimal solution (i.e., to guarantee an interior optimum),
we will require c(0) > 1 since otherwise the utility from
displaying to the ﬁrst evaluator itself pays for the cost of
producing a zero-quality contribution.

WWW 2011 – Session: Monetization IMarch 28–April 1, 2011, Hyderabad, India141than one contribution may qualify for display to the gen-
eral population, even a qualifying contribution won’t re-
ceive all units of attention, but will share it with the re-
maining qualifying contributions. Let M be the number
of available viewers, and suppose K − 1 other contribu-
tors decide to participate with quality q∗
. Note that not
all of these other K − 1 contributors will qualify to be dis-
played: if k out of these qualify, which happens with prob-
)K−1−k, our contributor receives

q∗Ak
ability
M/(k + 1) views.
The expected number of qualiﬁed views of a contributor
with quality q given that the other K − 1 contributors use
quality q∗

(1 − q∗A

K−1

, V

(cid:4)

(cid:5)

k

(cid:7)
sim(q, q∗, K), is
K−1(cid:6)

M

(cid:8)

K − 1
(cid:8)

k

qA

k=0

(cid:7)

k + 1

K−1(cid:6)

=

=

K

M qA
Kq∗A
Kq∗A (1 − (1 − q∗A

k + 1

M qA

k=0

q∗Ak+1

K
)

).

q∗Ak

(1 − q∗A

K−1−k
)

(1 − q∗A

K−1−k
)

Thus, the total proﬁts of a contributor with quality q in

the simultaneous entry model are

π

sim(q, q∗, K) =

M qA

Kq∗A (1 − (1 − q∗A

) − c(q).

K
)

(1)

4.1 Equilibrium
We will now show how to construct a free entry Nash
equilibrium in pure strategies (K, q∗
), given M and A. First,
since the proﬁt at a free-entry Nash equilibrium is zero, we
must have

π(q∗, K) = V (q∗, K) − c(q) = 0.

In addition, q∗
other (successful) contributors are choosing quality q∗
q∗

must be a best response given that K − 1
, i.e.,

must maximize π(q, q∗, K) for this K:

q∗

= arg max

q

V (q, q∗, K) − c(q).

to maximize the proﬁt (i.e., satisfy π(cid:3)

Why should such a pair of values that simultaneously sat-
isfy these two equations exist, and how do we proceed to
ﬁnd them? The standard approach to ﬁnding an equilib-
rium, which is to work with the ﬁrst-order conditions for
(q, q∗, K)|q∗ = 0),
q∗
does not work in our setting: because qA is convex in q for
qA − c(q)) need not be
A > 1, the payoﬀ functions (e.g. M
K
concave7. Thus, the ﬁrst-order conditions, while necessary,
do not characterize a maximum of the payoﬀ function.

Instead, we develop an alternative strategy, rewriting the
payoﬀ function by factoring out the ‘convex’ term qA, and
writing the remaining factor as the diﬀerence between two
terms, where the ﬁrst term depends only on the quality and
number of other participants, and the second depends only
on the quality q chosen by this participant. The zero proﬁt
and best response conditions together imply that q∗
must
be such that it minimizes this second term (independent of
K) over q, and K must be chosen so that this minimum
value is equal to the value of the ﬁrst term. To the best of

7In fact, the payoﬀ function can be guaranteed to have con-
vex regions for large enough A.

our knowledge, this is a new equilibrium construction; the
details are in the proof below.

Theorem 4.1. A free entry Nash equilibrium in pure
strategies always exists for each M, A. Further, the set of
equilibria (K, q∗
) are determined precisely by the minimiz-
ers of q−Ac(q); there is a unique equilibrium (K, q∗
) for each
minimizer q∗

.

Proof. Rewrite the payoﬀ π(q) as follows:
π(q, q∗, K) =V (q, q∗, K) − c(q) =q A

(b(q∗, K) − ψ(q)),

To ensure that q∗

Kq∗A (1 − (1 − q∗A
)K ) in the simultaneous model
K in the sequential model is independent of q and
of other

where b = M
and b = M
depends only on the number K and quality choice q∗
contributors.
that for all q, π(q) ≤ π(q∗
π(q, q∗, K) = qA
where the last equality uses the zero proﬁt condition, i.e.,
(K, q∗

) must be such that π(q∗, K) = 0.

(b(q∗, K)−ψ(q)) ≤ q∗A

is a best response, it is enough to ensure

(b(q∗, K)−ψ(q∗

), or

)) = 0,

Equilibrium Construction. Set

q∗

= arg min ψ(q) = arg min q−Ac(q),

(2)

and let K be such that8

b(q∗, K) − ψ(q∗

) = 0.

) = min ψ(q), ψ(q) ≥ b for all q,
Then, since b(q∗, K) = ψ(q∗
or b(q∗, K) − ψ(q) ≤ 0. So (K, q∗
is a best
response for each participant, and also these values satisfy
the zero proﬁt condition. So (K, q∗
) constructed above is a
free entry Nash equilibrium in pure strategies.

) is such that q∗

In the sequential model, K is given as

Kseq =

M q∗A
c(q∗)

.

(3)

In the simultaneous model, the equilibrium level of partici-
pation K is given by the solution of

M

(4)

) = 0

Ksim ) − c(q∗
)

). But with q∗

= 0 or b = ψ(q∗

(1 − (1 − q∗A
sim
= arg min q−Ac(q) is strictly greater than 0

K
(note that q∗
since the value of q−Ac(q)at 0 is ∞ (c(0) > 0).
Uniqueness. To see that no other qualities can arise in
equilibrium except for minimizers of q−Ac(q), observe that
to be a best response, we must have b ≤ ψ(q) since
for q∗
qA ≥ 0. To satisfy the zero proﬁt condition, we must have
either q∗
= 0, the payoﬀ
) = 0 − c(0) < 0 since c(0) > 0 irrespective of K. So
π(q∗
q∗
= 0 is not an equilibrium quality, since not participating
(which has payoﬀ zero) is always a proﬁtable deviation. The
second alternative, b = ψ(q∗
minimizing
q−Ac(q).
,(3)
makes it evident that q∗
uniquely determines Kseq in the
sequential model (note that Kseq is unique even if there are
multiple minimizers of q−Ac(q)). In the simultaneous model,
8Note that the values of M, A may be such that the nearest
integer less than K is 0, which corresponds to no participants
in equilibrium.

Finally, to see that K is uniquely determined by q∗

) corresponds to q∗

WWW 2011 – Session: Monetization IMarch 28–April 1, 2011, Hyderabad, India142we use Proposition 4.1 below: since
is a (strictly)
decreasing function of K for 0 < x <1, there is a unique
solution K

sim to (4) given q∗

K

.

(1−xK )

We include the proof of the following property for com-

pleteness.

Proposition 4.1. The function 1−xK

K
function of K for any x with 0 < x <1.

Proof.

1 − xK

K =

−1
K 2

∂
∂K

1 − xK

+ xK

(cid:9)

is a decreasing

(cid:10)

log(x)

.

The term (1 − xK + xK log(x)) is nonnegative, because 1 −
xK + xK log(x) → 0 as x → 1 and is decreasing as a function
of x: the partial derivative with respect to x
∂
∂x

1 − xK

log(x)

+ xK

(cid:9)

(cid:10)

= KxK−1
= K 2xK−1

(−1 +K log(x) + 1)
log(x) < 0

for 0 < x <1.

4.2 Monotonicity

We now investigate the monotonicity properties of the
quality and quantity of contributions in equilibrium as a
function of A, the number of tests a contribution must pass
in order to qualify for display. We have the following theo-
rems.

q∗

Theorem 4.2. Fix M . Then, the equilibrium quality
(A) is an increasing function of A.
Proof. Consider A1, A2, with A1 < A2, and let qi =
(Ai) be the equilibrium quality at Ai. Since qi minimizes

q∗
q−Ai c(q), we have

(5)

(6)

Rearranging and combining these inequalities gives us

(cid:11)

q1
q2

1

q−A1
q−A2

2

c(q1) ≤ q−A1
c(q2) ≤ q−A2

2

1

c(q2).
c(q1).

≤

(cid:12)−A1 ≤ c(q2)
(cid:11)

(cid:11)
(cid:12)A2−A1 ≤ 1.

c(q1)

q1
q2

q1
q2

(cid:12)−A2

.

That is,

Since A1 < A2, A2 − A1 > 0, which means we must have
≤ 1 for the above inequality to hold. That is, q1 ≤ q2,
proving that q∗

(A) increases monotonically with A.

q1
q2

Next we prove that the expected amount of content a
viewer sees in equilibrium decreases with A in both the si-
multaneous and sequential models.

Theorem 4.3. Fix M . The expected number of contri-
butions displayed in equilibrium, conditional on this number
being nonzero, is a decreasing function of A.

Proof. Sequential Model. The equilibrium number of
qualifying contributions in the sequential model is exactly K
(i.e., it is not a random variable). From (3), the equilibrium
participation K = M q∗A /c(q∗
is the minimizer

), where q∗

of q−Ac(q). So to prove monotonicity of K, it is enough to
prove the monotonicity of f (A) = minq q−Ac(q) with A.
First, observe that for a ﬁxed q, q−Ac(q) increases with
A. Again, let A2 > A1. Now, with qi = q∗
c(q2) ≤ q−A2

c(q1) ≤ q−A1

q−A1

c(q2),

(Ai),

1

2

2

where the ﬁrst inequality follows from optimality of q1, and
the second inequality uses that q−Ac(q) increases with A.
Therefore, f (A) = minq q−Ac(q) is an increasing function of
A, which implies that K = M/f (A) is decreasing in A.

Simultaneous Model. The number of participants in equi-
librium is K, but the number that qualify for display is a
random number between 0 and K. The expected number of
qualifying contributions, Kq, conditional on seeing at least
one contribution, is

E[Kq | Kq > 0] =

Kq∗A

1 − (1 − q∗A )K

,

since the probability of 0 qualifying contributions is (1 −
q∗A

)K . We can write this as

Kq∗A

1 − (1 − q∗A )K =

M

q∗−A c(q∗)

from the zero proﬁt condition. But we just proved that
q∗−A c(q∗
) is an increasing function of A, which means the
left-hand side is a decreasing function of A as required.

4.3 Asymptotics

We now investigate asymptotic equilibrium behavior– how
do the equilibrium quality and participation behave in the
limit as M → ∞, i.e., what is the best we can hope to
achieve with this mechanism? Since q∗
is a function of A
alone (i.e., the increased beneﬁt from having a larger viewer
population will not inﬂuence the quality produced in equilib-
rium), the strictness of the test A will need to be increased
to increase the equilibrium quality. We ﬁrst show that let-
ting A → ∞ indeed causes q∗ → 1, that is, the elimination
mechanism Me indeed achieves what the proportional mech-
anism could not, namely eliciting optimal qualities in the
limit. Next, we show that this can be done while eliciting
a high level of participation as M → ∞:
in the sequen-
tial model we can achieve K → ∞with q∗ → 1, while in
the simultaneous model, we show that the relevant quantity,
which is the expected quality, can also be made to approach
1 as M → ∞.

Theorem 4.4. The equilibrium quality q∗

as A approaches inﬁnity, i.e., limA→∞ q∗

(A) = 1.

approaches one

Proof. First, we note that q∗

(A) = arg min q−Ac(q)
must be an interior minimum, i.e., 0 < q∗
(A) < 1, since
q−Ac(q) is inﬁnity at both q = 0 and q = 1 (recall that
c(0) > 1 and c(1) = ∞). Since q∗
(A) is an interior mini-
mum of a smooth function, we have the ﬁrst-order condition

−Aq∗−A−1

c(q∗

) +q ∗−A

c(cid:3)

(q∗

) = 0.

Rearranging, the following relation between A and q∗A
always hold, in particular as A → ∞:
)

A =

q∗c(cid:3)
(q∗
c(q∗)

.

must

WWW 2011 – Session: Monetization IMarch 28–April 1, 2011, Hyderabad, India143Now, we have limq→1 q∗ c(cid:3)(q∗)

c(q∗) = ∞: since limq→1 c(q) =
∞, limq→1 log c(q) = ∞ as well. The derivative of a func-
tion cannot be ﬁnite where the function tends to inﬁnity, so
(cid:3)
limq→1(log c)
Also, this relation cannot be satisﬁed by any limit for q∗
other than 1: by assumption, c(cid:3)
(q) is ﬁnite for every q < 1,
and the denominator c(q) > 1 everywhere, since c(0) > 1
and c is increasing. Therefore limq→q0 q∗ c(cid:3)(q∗)
c(q∗)
is ﬁnite for
every q0 < 1.

→ ∞ as well.

c(cid:3)(q∗)
c(q∗)

=

Next we investigate the asymptotic quantity of display
content in equilibrium. The trade-oﬀ between the number
of qualifying contributions and q∗
for a ﬁxed M means that
we must check whether this number is indeed large enough
when we send q∗ → 1.

In the sequential model, there is no randomness associated
with the number of displayed contributions– so if there is
an equilibrium with K ≥ 1, then there will be exactly K
displayed contributions. While we do not prove the result
here, an argument very similar to the one given below for
expected quality shows that it is possible to choose A so that
the equilibrium quality approaches 1 alongwith the number
of qualifying contributions K approaching inﬁnity.

In the simultaneous model, however, K > 1 is not enough
to ensure that a nonzero number of contributions will even-
tually be displayed. Here, we would like to ensure not only
that equilibrium quality approaches 1, but that the expected
quality, which we deﬁne as the equilibrium quality times the
probability of seeing at least one qualifying contribution, can
be made to approach 1 as well. The next theorem answers
the question of whether there exists a way to increase A with
M such that we can achieve both objectives simultaneously.

the expected quality in the simultaneous model, q∗
q∗A

Theorem 4.5. There exists a choice of A(M ) such that
(1 − (1 −
)K ) → 1 as M → ∞.
Proof. For the expected quality to tend to 1 as M → ∞,
we need the term (1 − q∗A
)K to converge to 0 with M . For
this, it is enough to require that for some 0 < α < 1, we
have (1− q∗i
)K ≤ αi. Taking logarithms on both sides, it is
enough that K = K(i, M ) satisﬁes
log αi

K ≥

log(1 − q∗i )

.

Suppose A(M0) = i for some M0 is such that this inequality
holds for the corresponding equilibrium values of K and q.
Recall that for a ﬁxed A, K → ∞ as M → ∞. We let M
increase while holding A ﬁxed at i, until the M1 where K is
large enough so that

K(M1, i + 1, q(i + 1)) ≥

log αi+1

log(1 − q∗(i+1)

.

We then set A(M1) =i + 1, and A(M ) =i
M < M1.

)
for all M0 ≤
By construction, limM→∞(1 − q∗A(M ))K → 0, and the

the expected number of participants required is the expected
number of coin tosses before getting K heads, where each
coin comes up heads with probability qA– this expected
value is K/qA. So the fraction of generated content that
is actually displayed is qA. This is the same fraction of gen-
erated content that is displayed in an equilibrium in the si-
multaneous model as well, where the number of participants
is exactly K (in contrast with an expected number of par-
ticipants K/qA in the sequential model), and the expected
number of qualifying contributions is KqA (in contrast with
exactly K in the sequential model). How does this ratio qA
behave in the limit as A → ∞? Naturally, the answer must
depend on the properties of the cost function c. The fol-
lowing result characterizes qA in terms of the cost function
c.

Theorem 4.6. Suppose we

qc(cid:3)(q)
c(q)

− z(1 − q)

can ﬁnd

that
−b → 0 for some 0 < z < ∞.

such

b

limq→1
Then

• limA→∞ qA → 1 if b < 1;
• limA→∞ qA → e−z if b = 1; and
• limA→∞ qA → 0 if b > 1.
Proof. Recall that A and q∗

are related by A =

q∗c(cid:3)(q∗)
c(q∗)

.

Therefore,

log(qA

) =A log q =

q∗c(cid:3)
(q∗
c(q∗)

)

log q.

Since limA→∞ q = 1, we have

A→∞ log(qA
lim

) = lim
q→1

= lim
q→1

= lim
q→1

= lim
q→1

log(q)

)

log q
−b

q∗c(cid:3)
(q∗
c(q∗)
z(1 − q)
z log q
(1 − q)b
z
−bq(1 − q)b−1

,

Now,

if b > 1,

where the last step uses L’Hospital’s rule since both the
numerator and denominator tend to zero as q → 1.
limq→1 q(1 − q)b−1 = 0,
so that
limA→∞ log qA = −∞, or qA → 0. If b = 1, limq→1 q(1 −
q)b−1 = 1, and log qA → −(z/b) = −z, so qA → e−z, which
is some constant between zero and one. Finally, if b <1,
limq→1

−bq(1−q)b−1 = 0, so that qA → 1.

z

(q) =rc (1 − q)

Consider again the function c(q) = c(1 − q)
−r−1, so that qc(cid:3)

−r. For
this function, c(cid:3)
(q)/c(q) =
rq(1 − q)
−1. Therefore z = r, b = 1, and qA → e−k. So
a constant fraction of the contributions are displayed, but
also a constant fraction of the contributions are wasted. A
natural question is whether it is possible to achieve optimal
quality, along with the limiting fraction of waste converging
to zero. We next answer this question in the aﬃrmative.
4.4 Elimination with Restricted Entry

expected quality converges to one as required.

How much contribution eﬀort is wasted? Requiring each
contribution to pass A tests, which happens with probability
qA, means that there will be a number of wasted contribu-
tions. Speciﬁcally, to generate K successful contributions,

In many online settings, such as comments on blogs or
news articles, or product or restaurant reviews, limiting en-
try by closing or disallowing further contributions may not
be, practically speaking, desirable. But there are online set-
tings where restricting entry may indeed be feasible, for in-
stance, question-answer forums sometimes close questions to

WWW 2011 – Session: Monetization IMarch 28–April 1, 2011, Hyderabad, India144new answers beyond a certain date. Below we show that re-
stricting contributions when a certain number of qualifying
contributions has been reached (where qualiﬁcation is deter-
mined by the elimination mechanism as before) can lead to
it can allow us to send q∗ → 1
very desirable properties:
while sending the fraction of wasted contributions to zero.
Mechanism Mr. We now consider a modiﬁed version of
the elimination mechanism, Mr, which restricts entry– we
continue to subject each unit of content to A tests, but limit
K to a restricted number of contributors, that is, prevent
free entry. (Note that simply restricting entry without elim-
ination does not achieve anything since share of attention
remains independent of quality, which means equilibrium
qualities remain 0 exactly as in the baseline mechanism.)
We analyze this under the sequential entry model. With
A = 1, each contributor gets a payoﬀ
q − c(q).

π(q) =

M
K

The equilibrium quality chooses q∗
to maximize π(q), which
is independent of other contributors’ choices and depends
only on M, K. So

M

K = c(cid:3)

(q∗

),

(q) → ∞, and limq→q0 c(cid:3)

so that q∗ → 1 as M diverges provided M/K diverges as
well, since limq→1 c(cid:3)
(q) is ﬁnite
for every q0 < 1. Therefore, even with just one test, the
equilibrium quality under restricted entry converges to 1 as
M → ∞, for any constant number of allowed contributions
K. (Of course, with A = 0 the quality q∗
= 0 as well.) The
expected number of wasted contributions is K(1−q∗
), which
converges to 0 for any constant K (and can also be made to
go to 0 for increasing K provided the target K grows slowly
enough).

5. A MORE GENERAL ATTENTION

MODEL

Our analysis so far assumes that the attention per con-
tribution when there are M viewers and K displayed con-
tributions is M/K. This assumption is accurate when each
viewer views exactly one unit of content, or views Y units
of content where Y < K (i.e., no viewer has more attention
available than the amount of content displayed), or alter-
nately, spends some amount of time t on the page that is
independent of the number of displayed contributions.

A more general model of viewing behavior is the follow-
ing. There is a distribution of types in the viewer popula-
tion, where a fraction pi of viewers views min(i, K) units of
content. That is, a viewer in the ith segment has enough
attention to consume i contributions (such as comments, re-
views), and will do so, unless fewer are displayed in which
case she consumes all of it9. By deﬁnition, the pi are a dis-
i=1 pi = 1. When there are M viewers, the
tribution, i.e.,
total amount of available attention in this model of viewing
behavior, when K units are displayed is

(cid:2)∞

∞(cid:6)

f (M, K) = M

min(i, K)pi.

i=1

9In general, of course, this would also depend on the contri-
bution quality, but our argument will work provided we use
the distribution for the lowest quality.

We note that another natural model of viewing behavior,
where a viewer continues to the next contribution with prob-
ability δ after reading a contribution, generates a special case
of this model with pi proportional to δi−1.

The total amount of available attention from M viewers is
now a function of the number of displayed contributions K
(as before, using random permutations, we ensure that this
attention is distributed equally across all displayed content).
We will show that our equilibrium analysis continues to hold
for this more general model of viewing behavior, and in fact,
also holds for any model of viewer attention as long as the
total attention as a function of the number of viewers and
displayed contributions, f (M, K), satisﬁes f (M, K)/K ≥
M/K for each K.

Theorem 5.1. Suppose f (M, K)/K > M/K. Then the
equilibrium quality q∗
remains unchanged, and the equilib-
rium participation K is at least as large as that when each
contribution’s share of attention is M/K.

K

f (M,K)

Proof. For simplicity, consider the sequential model.
The probability of being selected for display, qA,
is un-
changed, as is the cost function c(q). The payoﬀ is mod-
qA − c(q). Since f (M, K) is in-
iﬁed to π(q) =
dependent of q, the same equilibrium construction as in
Theorem 4.1 can be used to show that equilibrium quality
q∗
= arg min q−Ac(q). Therefore, the equilibrium quality is
unchanged. The equilibrium K is determined by the zero
≥ M
proﬁt condition
K
for each K, the value of K satisfying the zero proﬁt con-
dition above is larger than M q∗A
c(q∗) , which is the equilibrium
participation when the total available attention is exactly
M .

= q∗−A c(q∗

). Since

f (M,K)

f (M,K)

K

K

In the distribution model of viewing behavior, it is ev-
ident that f (M, K) > M since
i=1 ipi > 1. Therefore,
f (M, K)/K > M/K. This immediately implies that as in
our analysis so far, limA→∞ q∗ → 1, and this can be achieved
while simultaneously sending K → ∞. Note that the mono-
tonicity results hold as well, by the same arguments as be-
fore.

6. OPTIMIZING FOR VIEWER WELFARE
We have so far studied the problem of incentivizing high-
quality content from the perspective of strategic contrib-
utors, which allows addressing questions concerning high
quality and participation. However, for a ﬁxed number of
viewers M , recall that there is a trade-oﬀ between quality
and quantity that can be achieved by changing the number
of tests A. How should we choose A, or equivalently, a point
on this trade-oﬀ curve?

The answer to this question must come from a model of
viewer utility, which speciﬁes how viewers derive utility from
a set of contributions.
In general, the utility from a set
of contributions can be an arbitrary, complicated function
of a number of factors in addition to number and quality,
such as the overlap amongst the contributions. Here we will
illustrate this idea of choosing A based on the viewer’s utility
for an example viewer utility function.

consuming reviews q1, q2, . . . , qK is M K−α(cid:2)K

Viewer Model. As an illustration, suppose the utility of
i=1 qi, for some
0 < α <1 and M users. Here, the viewer does derive a
positive value from additional reviews, but with decreasing

(cid:2)∞

WWW 2011 – Session: Monetization IMarch 28–April 1, 2011, Hyderabad, India145returns to scale (which is necessary to prevent needing an
inﬁnite number of reviews). When α is close to 1, the user
only cares about the average content quality and does not
derive value from having a number of diﬀerent contributions,
so producing a single excellent contribution is more desirable
than several average ones. This could be the case, for exam-
ple, when a user asks for the proof of a theorem on the pop-
ular mathematics question-and-answer site MathOverﬂow–
a few almost correct proofs are useless compared to a single
actual proof. In contrast, using α close to 0 models situa-
tions where diversity is very valuable where the user would
rather have a large number of reasonable contributions than
a few near-perfect ones, such as for instance when asking for
suggestions about things to do in New York.

The viewer-optimal outcome is the best that could be
done for the viewers given their utility model, while re-
specting the individual rationality of contributors. Suppose
a dictator can see the quality of content. To maximize
viewer welfare, he would set a threshold quality q1 and a
number of reviewers K to maximize M K 1−αq1 subject to
M/K − c(q1) ≥ 0. Clearly this solves with M/K = c(q1)
so that K = (M/c(q1)), and hence the viewer-optimal solu-
tion maximizes M q1(M/c(q1))1−α. This solution chooses
a threshold quality q1 independent of M that minimizes
f (q1) = q
c(q1). The function f (q1) takes a minimum
in (0, 1) and has derivative

1−α
1

1

(cid:11)

−1

1

1−α
1

q

c(q1)

(q1)

q1c(cid:3)
c(q1)

− 1
1 − α

(cid:12)

.

1

In the free entry solution in the elimination mechanism with
q∗c(cid:3)(q∗)
A tests, the equilibrium quality satisﬁes
c(q∗) = A. Set-
ting the number of tests to be the closest integer A to
1−α
produces an equilibrium quality close to the quality that
maximizes viewer welfare (if there is a unique solution to
the ﬁrst-order condition)10. That is, the model of viewer
welfare now allows us to answer the question of what is the
”optimal” number of tests A: it is the one that induces the
optimal utility for users. We see that as α decreases down to
zero (marginal returns become less and less diminishing, i.e.,
additional contributions become more valuable) one needs
less and less stringent tests; for α = 0 (corresponding to the
extreme of additive utility), a single test is optimal.

We point out that exactly the same reasoning applies
for the slightly more general contributor utility function is
M K−β − c(q), with 1/(1 − α) being replaced by β/(1 − α)
as the choice for A.

7. DISCUSSION

In this paper, we introduced a game-theoretic framework
to analyze and compare mechanisms for user generated con-
tent with a very simple model of utility for contributors,
assuming nonstrategic viewers. There are a number of in-
teresting directions for further work within this framework
by relaxing various assumptions we make.

A natural direction to explore is diﬀerent utility functions
for contributors; we outline two speciﬁc ideas. First, some
contributors might have negative cost of contribution for q
less equal some threshold q0, i.e., they derive positive value

10This is the case if, for example, f (q) =
ing function of q (this is satisﬁed by c(q) =c/(1 − q)b).

is an increas-

qc(cid:3)(q)
c(q)

from simply generating the content irrespective of exposure;
this is relevant, for instance, in the context of reviews for
very popular books and movies. How does the presence of
such agents, who will always participate, aﬀect which mech-
anisms have good equilibria?

A second interesting direction is asymmetric costs, which
is relevant in the context of Q&A sites– an expert may have a
much lower cost for contributing a high-quality answer than
a nonexpert. The theory developed in this paper can be ex-
tended to asymmetric costs with some increase in notational
complexity. Asymmetric costs generally open the door to in-
eﬃcient equilibria, where a low cost contributor is deterred
from contributing because of the contribution of a higher
cost contributor. Such ineﬃciencies are especially likely in
the sequential world, because lower cost contributors need
not be the ﬁrst to appear, but are also possible in the si-
multaneous environment. While the elimination mechanism
can be used to induce high quality contributions, it treats
every contribution that passes the test equally; it would be
desirable to incorporate into the mechanism a provision that
contributions which do better are shown more prominently.
This relation of quality to quantity induces something akin
to the proportional mechanism, although with a cutoﬀ to
insure a minimum quality. As we saw, though, the pro-
portional mechanism is not very good at inducing quality;
a ‘top-P ’ type mechanism will in fact induce higher quality
contributions by lower marginal cost suppliers, but then fails
to take advantage of the higher quality by displaying it more
prominently. Thus, our ﬁndings suggest a tradeoﬀ between
inducing higher quality, and taking advantage of the higher
quality. It is an open problem to ascertain what mechanisms
perform best in the asymmetric cost environment.

Finally, we note brieﬂy that allowing malicious or
strategic voters, who do exist in practice,
introduces an
additional dimension of complexity by creating a two-sided
setting with strategic agents on both sides, since the quality
of both contributions and voters is unknown. This problem
might be best modeled and studied in a repeated setting
which utilizes user and voter reputation.

Acknowledgments. We are grateful to Judd Antin,
Joshua Gans and David Pennock for helpful comments and
pointers to the literature.

8. REFERENCES
[1] E. Friedman, P. Resnick, R. Sami, Manipulation-Resistant
Reputation Systems, Algorithmic Game Theory, Cambridge
University Press, 2007.

[2] Y. Chen, S. Jain, D. Parkes, Designing Incentives for

Online Question and Answer Forums, ACM EC, 2009.

[3] S. Jain, D. Parkes, The Role of Game Theory in Human

Computation Systems (Position Paper), HCOMP 2009.

[4] S. Jain, D. Parkes, A Game-Theoretic Analysis of the ESP

Game, Working Paper.

[5] A. Jøsang, R. Ismail, C. Boyd, A Survey of Trust and

Reputation Systems for Online Service Provision, Decision
Support Systems, 43(2), 618-644, March 2007.

[6] K. Ling, G. Beenen, X. Wang, K. Chang, D. Frankowski, P.

Resnick, R. Kraut, Using social psychology to motivate
contributions to online communities, Journal of Computer
Mediated Communication, 10(4), 2005.

[7] S. Rafaeli, Y. Ariel, Online Motivational Factors:
Incentives for Participation and Contribution in
Wikipedia, Psychological Aspects of Cyberspace,
Cambridge University Press, 2008.

WWW 2011 – Session: Monetization IMarch 28–April 1, 2011, Hyderabad, India146