A Declarative Framework

for Semantic Link Discovery over Relational Data

∗

Oktie Hassanzadeh
University of Toronto

oktie@cs.toronto.edu

Lipyeow Lim
IBM Research

liplim@us.ibm.com

Anastasios Kementsietsidis

IBM Research

akement@us.ibm.com

Min Wang
IBM Research

min@us.ibm.com

ABSTRACT
In this paper, we present a framework for online discov-
ery of semantic links from relational data. Our framework
is based on declarative speciﬁcation of the linkage require-
ments by the user, that allows matching data items in many
real-world scenarios. These requirements are translated to
queries that can run over the relational data source, poten-
tially using the semantic knowledge to enhance the accuracy
of link discovery. Our framework lets data publishers to eas-
ily ﬁnd and publish high-quality links to other data sources,
and therefore could signiﬁcantly enhance the value of the
data in the next generation of web.

Categories and Subject Descriptors
H.2.5 [Information Systems]: Heterogeneous Databases;
H.2.4 [Information Systems]: Systems; H.2.3 [Information
Systems]: Languages
General Terms
Algorithms, Design, Languages
Keywords
Link Discovery, Record Linkage, Linked Data, Semantic Web

1.

INTRODUCTION

While publishing online data is now easier than ever, at-
tempts to establish semantic relationships between diﬀerent
published data sources has been less successful. So, from the
users’ perspective, online sources resemble islands of data
(or data silos), where each island maintains only part of the
data necessary to satisfy a user’s information needs. Pene-
trating these silos to both understand their contents and un-
derstand potential semantic connections is a daunting task.
What web users need is automated support for creating ref-
erential links between data that reside in diﬀerent sources
and that are semantically related. Of course, ﬁnding such
links requires the use of both approximate matching (to over-
come syntactic representational diﬀerences and errors) and
semantic matching (to ﬁnd speciﬁc semantic relationships).
Furthermore, both types of matching must be tightly in-
tegrated to accommodate for the tremendous heterogeneity
found in web repositories.

∗Work done while at IBM T.J. Watson Research Center

Copyright is held by the author/owner(s).
WWW 2009, April 20–24, 2009, Madrid, Spain.
ACM 978-1-60558-487-4/09/04.

In the context of the Linking Open Data (LOD) commu-
nity project at W3C, a number of tools and frameworks have
been developed that allow the generation and publication of
linked data from relational databases. Examples of such
frameworks include D2RQ [2] and OpenLink’s Virtuoso [1].
Although these frameworks signiﬁcantly simplify the pro-
cess of publishing linked data, and are a main reason behind
the recent growth of the linked data sources, they do not
provide tools for discovering links between the data sources.
The number of links between existing LOD data sources is
still three orders of magnitude less than the number of base
data triples (as of January 2009).

For typical users, this means they must experiment with
a myriad of diﬀerent link discovery methods to ﬁnd one
that suits their needs. In this paper, we seek to develop a
generic and extensible framework for integrating link discov-
ery methods. Our goal is to facilitate experimentation and
help users ﬁnd and tune the link discovery methods that
will work best for their domain and application. Our frame-
work permits the discovery of links between autonomous re-
lational sources.

2. MOTIVATING EXAMPLE

As our motivating example, consider the sample relations
and data shown in Figure 1, including a database of clini-
cal trials (the CT relation), a source of electronic medical
records (EMR) for patients (relation PV ) and a web source
extracted from DBpedia (or Wikipedia) which stores infor-
mation about drugs and diseases (the DBPD and DBPG
relations). Starting from these relations, we now describe
brieﬂy the types of links data publishers would like to dis-
cover between them. Patient visit “VID770” with diagno-
sis “Thalassaemia” in the PV relation should be linked to
the trial “NCT00579111” with condition “Hematologic Dis-
eases” since “Thalassaemia” is a diﬀerent representation of
“Thalassemia” and according to a medical thesaurus (such
as NCI) “Thalassemia” is a type of “Hematologic Diseases”.
The prescr iption column of both patient visits in the PV
relation should link to trial “NCT00336362” based on the
fact that “Hydroxycarbamide”, “Hydroxyura” and “Hydrox-
yurea” all refer to the same drug. Other interesting corre-
lations include linking “Westchester Med. Ctr” from visit
“VID777” to “Columbia University” based on additional ge-
ographical information that both locations are in the same
state (New York), and ﬁnding other related trials based on
a speciﬁc criteria, e.g., based on the similarity of the title
and authors of the trials’ corresponding publications. The
online trials data source can link the condition “Hemato-

WWW 2009 MADRID!Track: Web Engineering / Session: End User Web Engineering1101trial
NCT00336362
NCT00579111

cond
Beta-Thalassemia
Hematologic Diseases

inter
Hydroxyurea
Campath

loc
Columbia University
Texas Children’s Hospital

city
New York
Austin

pub
14988152
3058228

visitid
VID770
VID777

diag
Thalassaemia
PCV

prescr
Hydroxyura
Hydroxycarbamide Westchester Med. Ctr

location
Texas Hospital

(b) Patient visit (PV )

(a) Clinical trials (CT )

Figure 1: Sample relations

name
Thalassemia
Blood Disorders

(c) DBpedia

Disease (DBPD)

name
Alemtuzumab
Hydroxyurea

(d) DBpedia
Drug (DBPG)

linkspec_stmt:= CREATE LINKSPEC linkspec name ( col1, col2 )

AS link_method opt_args opt_limit;
link_method:= native_link | link_clause_expr | UDF;
native_link:= synonym | hyponym | stringMatch;

link_clause_expr:= link_clause AND link_clause_expr
| link_clause OR link_clause_expr
| link_clause;

link_clause:= LINK col3 WITH col4

USING link_terminal opt_limit;

link_terminal:= native_link | UDF | linkspec name

opt_limit:= LINKLIMIT number;

Figure 2: The LinQL grammar

logic Diseases” to DBpedia resource (or Wikipedia page) on
“Blood Disorders”, and link the intervention “Campath” to
DBpedia resource “Alemtuzumab” using the semantic knowl-
edge that “Campath” is the brand name for the chemical
name “Alemtuzumab”.
3. THE LINQL LANGUAGE

We introduce LinQL, an extension of SQL that integrates
querying with link discovery methods. A query written in
LinQL identiﬁes (a) the subset of the local data that must
be linked; (b) a source containing external data that are to
be linked with the local data from (a); and (c) the meth-
ods(s) that must be used to ﬁnd links between the local and
external data. Our framework includes a variety of native
(or built-in) methods including synonym, hyponym, and a
variety of string similarity functions. Such native methods
can be used as such or they can be customized by setting
their parameters and combined to allow both semantic and
syntactic matching. This allows users to interleave declara-
tive queries with interesting combinations of link discovery
requests. The native support for methods also permits cus-
tomization where domain knowledge is available that can
greatly enhance the performance. The framework is also ex-
tensible to additional methods, written as “black-box” user-
deﬁned functions (UDF).

Although the linkage speciﬁcation elements of LinQL are
expressible in a number of diﬀerent languages and nota-
tions (e.g., RDF/XML, N3, NTriples), in our framework we
choose for consistency an SQL-like syntax. A link speciﬁca-
tion, or linkspec for short, deﬁnes the conditions that two
given values must satisfy before a link can be established
between them. In more detail, a linkspec is deﬁned using
the grammar of Figure 2 (we omit here the full grammar
and only present its main components). As shown in the
ﬁgure, a CREATE LINKSPEC statement deﬁnes a new linkspec
and accepts as parameters the name of the deﬁned linkspec
and the names of the relation columns whose values need to
be linked.

A link speciﬁcation can also be deﬁned in terms of link
clause expressions. Link clause expressions are boolean com-
binations of link clauses, where each link clause is semanti-
cally a boolean condition on two columns and is speciﬁed
using either (a) a native method; (b) a user-deﬁned func-
tion (UDF); or (c) a previously deﬁned linkspec. Note the
mutual recursive nature of linkspecs and link clauses. A
linkspec can be deﬁned using link clauses while a link clause
can be speciﬁed using previously deﬁned linkspecs. The LIN-
KLIMIT allows the users to limit the number of links and only
consider k results, or the top-k where ordering is possible.

4. FROM LINQL TO SQL

Irrespectively of the language used, a declarative speci-
ﬁcation must be translated into some form of a program
that ﬁnds the links between the local and external data.
Often, such programs are implemented using programming
languages like Java or C by third-party developers, and are
automatically invoked with arguments deﬁned through the
declarative speciﬁcation. As such, for the data publishers
these programs act as black-boxes that sit outside the data
publishing framework and whose modiﬁcation requires the
help of these developers. We propose an approach to ad-
dress these shortcomings by providing a native SQL imple-
mentation for the link discovery algorithms. This approach
has several advantages including the ability to (a) easily im-
plement this framework on existing relational data sources
with minimum eﬀort and without any need for externally
written program code; (b) take advantage of the underlying
DBMS optimizations in the query engine while evaluating
the SQL implementations of the link ﬁnding algorithms; and
(c) use speciﬁc eﬃciency and functionality enhancements to
improve the eﬃciency of these algorithms.

5. CONCLUSION

In this paper, we outlined a declarative extensible frame-
work for link discovery from relational data. We have imple-
mented the framework on a commercial database engine and
validated the eﬀectiveness of our approach by ﬁnding links
between a real clinical trials data source and several other
data sources1. We believe that our framework can greatly
enhance the process of publishing a high-quality data source
with links to other data sources on the web. Furthermore,
our framework combined with an existing popular declar-
ative approach for generating RDF data on the web such
as [2], can lead to a quick and simple way of publishing an
online linked data source with high-quality links.

6. REFERENCES
[1] Openlink Virtuoso: Universal server platform for the

real-time enterprise, http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/.
[2] C. Bizer and A. Seaborne. D2RQ - Treating non-RDF

databases as virtual RDF graphs. In ISWC2004 (posters).

1A subset of the links found are released at http://linkedct.org.

WWW 2009 MADRID!Track: Web Engineering / Session: End User Web Engineering1102