Scrolling Behaviour with Single- and Multi-column Layout

Cameron Braganza, Kim Marriott, Peter Moulder, Michael Wybrow and Tim Dwyer∗

Clayton School of Information Technology, Monash University, Australia

FirstName.LastName@infotech.monash.edu.au

ABSTRACT
The standard layout model used by web browsers is to lay
text out in a vertical scroll using a single column. The
horizontal-scroll layout model—in which text is laid out in
columns whose height is set to that of the browser win-
dow and the viewer scrolls horizontally—seems well-suited
to multi-column layout on electronic devices. We describe a
study that examines how people read and, in particular, the
strategies they use for scrolling with these two models when
reading large textual documents on a standard computer
monitor. We compare usability of the models and evaluate
both user preferences and the eﬀect of the model on per-
formance. Also interesting is the description of the browser
and its user interface which we used for the study.

Categories and Subject Descriptors
H.4.3 [Information Systems Applications]:
Communications Applications—Information browsers;
H.5.2 [Information Interfaces and Presentation]:
User Interfaces;
I.7.2 [Document and Text Processing]:
Document Preparation—Photocomposition/typesetting

General Terms
Experimentation, Human Factors

Keywords
Web-browser, Multi-column layout, Scrolling, Reading

1.

INTRODUCTION

Increasingly, large, primarily textual documents are being
read on a variety of electronic devices including traditional
desktop monitors, laptops, mobile phones and e-books. One
of most basic decisions when presenting such documents is
the choice of layout model.

The standard layout model used in web-browsers is the
vertical scroll in which (conceptually) the document is laid
out in a single page whose width is equal to the viewing win-
dow’s width and whose height expands to ﬁt the document

1Tim Dwyer is currently a visiting researcher at Microsoft
Research.

Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Com-
mittee (IW3C2). Distribution of these papers is limited to classroom use,
and personal use by others.
WWW 2009, April 20–24, 2009, Madrid, Spain.
ACM 978-1-60558-487-4/09/04.

Figure 1: Example of horizontal-scroll layout using
our browsing tool.

content. Scrolling moves the viewing window up and down
the page. While popular, this model is only suited to sin-
gle column layout unless the entire document can ﬁt in the
viewing window (since if the whole page doesn’t ﬁt on the
screen, then one needs to scroll backwards to ﬁnd the start
of the second column). Unfortunately, on many devices sin-
gle column layout leads to uncomfortably long lines of text
when the viewing window size is maximized to make use of
the available display.

The next most common layout model, paged layout, does
support multi-column layout. In this model the document
is laid out on consecutive ﬁxed-size pages. This model is,
of course, intended for print media and typically the page
size is chosen by the document author, e.g. as a PDF ﬁle.
However, in our view it is not well-suited to electronic view-
ing unless the page size is chosen at display time and layout
is performed dynamically so that some reasonable multiple
of pages are fully visible in the viewing window. This is
especially true when pages have multiple columns.

A third (much less common) layout model is the horizon-
tal scroll, illustrated in Figure 1. Two recent applications
that provide horizontal scrolling are Tofu1 and the Times
Reader2 for reading newspaper articles. In the horizontal-
scroll layout model the document is laid out in ﬁxed-width
columns on a single page whose height is set to the viewing
window height and whose width expands to ﬁt the document
content. Scrolling moves the viewing window across the

1Tofu 2.0 is available from http://amarsagoo.info/tofu/
2Available from https://timesreader.nytimes.com/

WWW 2009 MADRID!Track: User Interfaces and Mobile Web / Session: User Interfaces831page. In our view, horizontal scrolling is the natural model
for multi-column layout on electronic devices because, since
the layout is dynamic, it overcomes inappropriate page size
problems associated with paged layout.3 We will therefore
focus on the vertical- and horizontal-scroll layout models.

Another key component of the user interface for read-
ing on electronic devices is the scrolling mechanism used
to control which part of the document is visible on-screen.
A variety of techniques are used, including: keyboard (both
page-at-a-time movement, ﬁner movement with arrow keys
and keys to go to the beginning or end of the document);
the scroll wheel and its extension the scroll ball; on-screen
widgets such as scrollbars and other (often more visual) rep-
resentations of the whole document where one can select
which part to be displayed; and allowing the document to
be “dragged” through the viewport (this mechanism is com-
mon on hand-held touchscreen devices and also provided in
many PDF readers).

We are interested in the scrolling strategy used to read the
document. This determines when scrolling is performed and
by how much. Examples of diﬀerent strategies are scrolling
a line, a column or an entire screenful at a time.

We describe a user study investigating the vertical- and
horizontal-scroll layout models and their eﬀect on scrolling
strategy and scrolling mechanism when reading large textual
documents electronically. The main contributions are:
• It is the ﬁrst user study to compare usability of the
horizontal-scroll and vertical-scroll layout models. We
evaluate both user preferences and performance.
• As part of the study, we evaluate user preferences for
scrolling mechanisms and its relationship with reading
performance. This is done for both layout models.
• We investigate the scrolling strategies used with each
layout model. There has been little work on identifying
scrolling strategies used for reading large textual docu-
ments electronically.
• In order to perform the user study, we implemented a
browsing tool that provided both vertical and horizontal
scrolling for a substantial subset of HTML and allowed
a variety of scrolling mechanisms. A fourth contribution
of this paper is to describe this tool and the design of
the user interface for horizontal-scroll layout.

In our study 24 participants read two short stories from a
standard computer monitor and answered questions about
each. The questions typically required them to go back and
check details in the text. One story was presented with
multi-column layout on a horizontal scroll, the other with
single-column layout on a vertical scroll. Participants were
free to use whichever scrolling mechanism they preferred and
to customize the layout by, e.g., resizing the browser window
or changing the number of columns in horizontal layout. All
interaction with the browser was logged and eye-tracking
was used to determine the focus of attention on the screen.
Our ﬁndings were that one third of participants were more
comfortable with horizontal-scroll layout and two thirds with
vertical-scroll layout. The most common reason for prefer-

3Note that paged layout with dynamically chosen page size
is quite similar to horizontal-scroll layout. The main diﬀer-
ences are that with horizontal-scroll layout there are no page
boundaries, so ﬁgures can bridge adjacent columns and it is
natural to scroll a column at a time rather than a page at a
time.

ring vertical-scroll layout was familiarity, while ease of nav-
igation and shorter line length were the main reasons for
preferring horizontal-scroll layout. We found that partic-
ipant scrolling strategy and choice of scrolling mechanism
was related to their choice of preferred layout.

The same basic scrolling strategies were used with each
kind of layout: scrolling a screenful at a time, scrolling after
reading a smaller region in the screen (such as a column)
and continuous scrolling. However, continuous scrolling was
quite common for vertical-scroll layout but very infrequent
with horizontal-scroll layout while scrolling a screenful at a
time was much more common with horizontal-scroll layout
than with vertical-scroll layout.

We found that participants spent less time scrolling and
used fewer scrolling actions with horizontal-scroll layout than
with vertical-scroll layout, although the overall time to com-
plete the tasks was not signiﬁcantly diﬀerent. The scroll ball
and scroll bar were very frequently used when reading with
vertical-scroll layout but with horizontal-scroll layout they
were used less often, and keys were used more often. These
diﬀerences accord with the diﬀerences in scrolling strategy.

2. RELATED WORK

There has been considerable research into reading printed
material and how to best format it, e.g. [13]. There is much
less research into on-line reading and many of the results
are inconclusive or contradictory. The critical review by
Dyson [3] provides a good summary of research in this ﬁeld.
A relevant area of research is investigations into the eﬀect
of line length on readability. Dyson & Kipping [6] found that
longer lines (of up to 100 characters) were read more quickly.
However, Dyson [3] states that this is partially due to glare
(shorter lines lead to more white space on the screen) and
the need for more scrolling since the number of lines shown
on the screen was constant across diﬀerent line lengths. In-
terestingly, long lines are not found to lead to faster reading
with print media where a line length of around 50 characters
has been deduced to be optimal [3] (which is in accord with
typographic guidelines [2]). Dyson & Haselgrove [4] found
that comprehension rates were better with medium length
lines (55 characters) than with long lines (100 characters).
A consistent ﬁnding is that readers dislike long lines [6, 15].
User dislike of longer lines, along with the desire to maxi-
mize use of the available screen space make the use of multi-
column layout appealing. Unfortunately, as Dyson [3] states,
few studies have compared single and multi-column layout
for on-screen reading. Dyson & Kipping [5] compared one
column (80 characters) and three column layout (25 charac-
ters per column). They found that with paging, the younger
age group read the single column layout more quickly than
the three column layout while for older participants (> 25)
there was no diﬀerence. Baker [1] compared one-, two- and
three-column layout—with and without full justiﬁcation—
using paging. The results regarding reading speed and com-
prehension were, in our view, inconclusive. In both studies
users preferred multi-column layout over single column.

There have been studies comparing paging and scrolling
for single-column layout. Dyson & Kipping [5] split partici-
pants reading one-column layout into two groups: one could
use keys to page up or down and the other could use keys
to scroll up or down by one line at a time. They found that
scrolling was slower than paging. However, at least partly
this may be the result of forcing users to scroll with the key-

WWW 2009 MADRID!Track: User Interfaces and Mobile Web / Session: User Interfaces832board. They also found that there was substantial variation
in the number of scrolling actions (keystrokes within 2 sec-
onds of each other were collapsed into a single action) used
by readers and that faster readers tended to scroll more fre-
quently. However this was not explored in detail. We also
note the work of Zhai, Smith & Selker [16] who compared the
usability of diﬀerent scrolling devices and also Jones et al.[9]
who looked at scrolling use by small-screen users when work-
ing with content formatted for larger screens.

Our paper further explores single- and multi-column lay-
out for on-screen reading and scrolling strategies. There
are three main diﬀerences with previous work.
It is the
ﬁrst user study that considers horizontal-scroll layout. The
second diﬀerence is that this study allowed users to choose
how to scroll and their desired browser preferences, such as
window dimensions and font size. We feel that while mak-
ing analysis more diﬃcult, this provides results that will
better model real-world performance where users can make
these choices. The third diﬀerence is our focus on identify-
ing scrolling strategies through the use of eye-tracking data.
Eye-tracking has previously been used to identify strategies
for browsing, reading and searching web-pages, e.g. [7, 10,
14]. The novelty in our study is that we use it to investigate
strategies for reading long textual documents that do not ﬁt
on the screen and require the entire document to be read.

There has also been some research into reading with ded-
icated e-readers. Schcolnik [11] conducted an on-line sur-
vey of users of e-readers and a subsequent user study in
which participants were asked to read a short article from
an e-reader. Both studies collected user preferences but did
not investigate performance. Participants were overwhelm-
ingly found to prefer paging to scrolling and portrait mode
to landscape mode. It is hard to generalize from these pref-
erences since the very slow refresh rate of many e-readers
makes the dislike of scrolling unsurprising. Furthermore, as
best we can tell, only single-column layout was provided, in
which case the long lines of text resulting in landscape mode
may have been the reason for the dislike.

3. BROWSER

We have built a browsing tool to explore the layout and
user interaction issues that arise in multi-column layout of
documents using horizontal-scroll layout. The browser sup-
ports a subset of HTML/CSS: font styling, lists and para-
graphs, headings, links, embedded images and ﬂoats. One
limitation is that it does not yet handle tables or footnotes,
though not due to restrictions of the approach. Examples of
a layout obtained with the browser are shown in Figures 1
and 2. As with other common web-browsers, the user can
resize the browser window and change the font size.

One important interface question for browsers that sup-
port multi-column layout is control of column width in the
document. One possibility is that this is set by the document
author (typically speciﬁed as x em of the body font) and
only changed by the viewer in exceptional circumstances. A
second possibility is for column width to be dynamic and
depend on viewer preferences and width of the browser win-
dow. This is the approach we have chosen to use in our
tool. The user can explicitly set the number of columns vis-
ible in the browser using buttons on the main toolbar. This
is speciﬁed as an integer number of columns so as to enable
maximum use of the viewing area. The tool initially displays
three columns. Another possible approach would be to de-

a) Vertical-scroll layout

b) Horizontal-scroll layout

Figure 2: Screenshots of the browser application dis-
playing one of the short stories used in the experi-
ment. The default settings are used in both layouts.

termine the number and width of columns by dynamically
choosing the best template where templates are supplied by
the author and may diﬀer in the number of columns [8, 12].
The next question is how the column width should change
when the browser width is subsequently modiﬁed? One pos-
sibility is that the column width remain ﬁxed; this corre-
sponds to a metaphor in which the browser is seen as a win-
dow over a previously laid-out document. The other option
is that the speciﬁed number of columns remains invariant
but the column width changes; this corresponds to regard-
ing layout as a dynamic property of the browser window and
is what our tool currently does.

Another signiﬁcant interface design decision was whether
or not to provide an overview of the document. An earlier
version of the tool did not. However, one participant in a
preliminary user study apparently expected the arrow keys
to move a whole page when viewing a multi-column layout.
We speculated that this might be because they expected
the document to be laid out over several screen-sized pages
rather than one very wide page of which the screen shows a
relatively narrow section; the overview clariﬁes the situation,
and gives immediate visual feedback of viewport position as
one scrolls.

WWW 2009 MADRID!Track: User Interfaces and Mobile Web / Session: User Interfaces833The other signiﬁcant interface decisions were about which
scrolling mechanisms to provide and what their exact be-
haviour should be. We decided to implement all common
scrolling mechanisms and allow the user to choose. The
mechanisms and their behaviours were:
• Grab-and-drag: When the mouse is positioned over the
main browser window the user can move the viewable
area by holding the left mouse button down. A hand-
shaped mouse cursor is used to indicate this interaction.4
• Scroll ball: The most common mice at the time of writing
provide only a vertically aligned wheel that does not ﬁt
well with horizontal scrolling. We instead used an Apple
mouse with a ﬁnger-operated ball that can be rolled in
any direction. By moving the ball left or right the user
could smoothly scroll the main window left or right.
• Scrollbar: The tool provides a scroll bar on the bottom of
the window which the user can manipulate either using
the arrows at the end of the bar or by dragging the slider.
• Keys: The left- and right-arrow keys respectively scroll
left or right by one column; or in the case of a partially
obscured column, just enough to show one more full col-
umn in the desired direction. Page up and page down,
respectively, scroll left or right by one screen width (or
slightly less if the leftmost/rightmost column is partially
obscured). The space bar is equivalent to page down.
Home and End keys scroll to the start or end of the doc-
ument respectively.
• Overview: The tool allows the user to left-mouse click di-
rectly on the document overview widget. This scrolls to
bring the ﬁrst column in the main window to the column
in the overview that is closest to the mouse position.

The main issue when determining the behaviour was whether
scrolling should “snap” the left boundary of the main window
to column boundaries or not. While we felt that snapping
was useful since it is rare for the user to want to display
incomplete columns, we also wanted scrolling to behave as
similarly to scrolling with vertical-scroll layout as reason-
able and this typically does not snap to lines or paragraphs.
Thus, we ended up choosing to tailor the snapping behaviour
to the particular scrolling mechanism: Scrolling via grab-
and-drag, scroll ball and the scrollbar is smooth and does
not snap to column boundaries, but snapping does occur
with the other methods.

In order to be able to use our tool for the user study, it also
provides single-column vertical-scroll layout. For confor-
mity with horizontal-scroll layout, it provides a document-
overview window (shown as a vertical strip on the right of the
main window) which updates immediately during scrolling.
The scrolling mechanisms and behaviour are designed to
mimic the behaviour of current web browsers and are sim-
ilar to horizontal scrolling except that snapping is not per-
formed. The up- and down-arrow keys scroll up and down
respectively by 50 pixels while the left- and right-arrow keys
have no eﬀect.

4. THE EXPERIMENT

The main contribution of this paper is to describe a study
that we conducted to compare usability of the horizontal-
4While this behaviour interferes with drag-based text selec-
tion in non-modal interfaces, we include it since it is a popu-
lar interaction method for document and web page scrolling
on stylus or touch-based portable devices.

scroll and vertical-scroll layout models and to compare the
diﬀerent scrolling mechanisms and strategies used with each
model. The study required participants to read and then
answer questions about two short stories laid out with the
two diﬀerent layout models. Participants were allowed to
refer back to the story to check their answers. The study
investigated both user preferences and performance.

The experiment was designed to investigate the following
hypotheses:
• That for reading large, primarily textual documents on
electronic devices with moderately wide screens relative
to the body-text font size, the horizontal-scroll layout
model would be preferred by many users. The rationale
for this hypothesis is that this layout model allows more
text to be visible on screen at once while maintaining
comfortable line lengths.
• We conjectured that it might be easier to navigate with
horizontal-scroll layout because the columns would pro-
vide additional landmarks. We would expect this to re-
duce the time spent by participants going back to the
story to check their answers to the questions.
• We conjectured that the “natural” scrolling strategy for
horizontal scrolling would be to scroll by a column at a
time while for vertical scrolling the scrolling strategies
would be more varied, ranging from a line at a time to a
page at a time.
• As a consequence of this, we expected users would per-
form fewer scrolling actions and use less time scrolling
with horizontal-scroll layout than with vertical-scroll lay-
out since a signiﬁcant number of users reading the vertical-
scroll layout would repeatedly scroll by a few lines while
for the horizontal-scroll layout users would scroll by at
least one column.
• We conjectured that the choice of scrolling mechanism
would be diﬀerent for the two layouts, with key-based
scrolling more common with horizontal scrolling than
vertical because scrolling by a column at a time is readily
done with the arrow keys.

Participants: The participants were graduate or under-
graduate students of Monash University from a variety of
courses. All participants were volunteers with normal or
corrected-to-normal vision and proﬁcient readers of English.
24 participants completed the experiment; though for 4 par-
ticipants only their preference data was used: the interac-
tion logs for three of these were truncated due to a software
malfunction, and to ensure counter-balancing we needed to
discard data from a further participant.

Materials and Design: Two short stories of roughly
similar length that would take 10–20 minutes to read were
chosen: Prairie Dogs by Colin Frizzell (2013 words, Flesch–
Kincaid Grade Level 3.9) and The Cellmate by Crystal Ar-
bogast (1887 words, Flesch–Kincaid Grade Level 5).5 For
each story ﬁve questions were developed. The ﬁrst was to
rate how much they liked the story on a ﬁve-point scale. The
other questions were designed to require in-depth knowledge
of the story and it was expected that participants would need
to check their answers by re-reading part of the story. Exam-
ple questions were “What is the name of the town’s Sheriﬀ?”
and “Where is the train taking Bill and his friend?”

5The stories and other materials are available from
http://bowman.infotech.monash.edu.au/~pmoulder/
scroll-www/

WWW 2009 MADRID!Track: User Interfaces and Mobile Web / Session: User Interfaces834Participants were presented with one story in horizontal-
scroll layout and one in vertical-scroll layout. In order not to
bias the study, four counterbalanced versions of the experi-
ment were used, varying in the order in which the diﬀerent
stories were presented, and in the layout used.

Short (written) pre- and post-questionnaires were devel-
oped. The pre-questionnaire had multiple-choice questions
that asked: how many hours the participant spent on aver-
age reading from a computer monitor each week (1–2, 2–5,
6–10, >10, unsure/none) and the preferred way to read (on-
line, print or other). The post-questionnaire asked:
1. Which layout were you more comfortable reading text
with: a) The vertical scrolling (Up/Down) layout or b)
The multi-column horizontal (Sideways) layout?

2. Why do you feel that your preferred layout is better than

the other?

3. What, in your opinion, could be implemented to improve

the design of the less preferred layout?

4. Is there anything else you would like to add to help our

study?

We used the FaceLAB eye tracker developed by Seeing
Machines running FaceLAB (version 4.5) to log eye-tracking
data during the experiment. Eye-tracking was non-intrusive
and did not require the participant to wear head-gear. It did
have diﬃculty tracking some participants, especially those
with glasses, astigmatism or very dark eyes.

Procedure: Experiments were performed in a small room.
Participants were seated on a standard oﬃce chair in front
of a 19-inch computer monitor (Dell model #1905FP) on
which the browser was viewed.

After reading and signing a consent form which also pro-
vided a short description of what the experiment was in-
tended to investigate, the participants completed the pre-
questionnaire. The procedure for the ﬁrst short story was:
1. Instructions for using the browser for vertical-scroll or
horizontal-scroll layout as appropriate were read to the
participant. The default conﬁguration for the browser
was that it was sized to ﬁt the whole screen, with a
font-size of 16 pixels ((cid:39) 13 1
3 points), and three columns
were used in the horizontal-scroll layout. Participants
were given time to practise instructions and to familiar-
ize themselves with the appropriate layout type and the
diﬀerent available scrolling methods. They were encour-
aged change the browser settings (e.g., resize the window
or choose a diﬀerent font size) to make reading as com-
fortable as possible.

2. Participants were told that they would be reading two
short stories with the browser and that they would be
asked questions about the story afterwards. They were
told that they could go back to the text to double-check
their answer.

3. Calibration of the FaceLAB eye-tracker was performed.
4. After checking that the participant was comfortable and
understood the instructions, the browser was opened by
the research assistant (with layout parameters set to
their default value) to show the short story. At the end of
the story the participant indicated they had ﬁnished and
the research assistant pressed a key to log that reading
had ﬁnished.

5. They were then shown the questions and asked to write

their answer on the question sheet.

During both reading and question answering all user interac-
tion with the browser was logged and the participant’s gaze
was tracked and logged. Once the questions were ﬁnished
the logging was stopped and the browser was closed.

The procedure for the second short story was the same

except that Step 2 was not performed.

Finally, the participants were asked to ﬁll out the post-

questionnaire.

5. DATA ANALYSIS AND RESULTS
5.1 Data analysis

zontal scroll layout)

The primary data analysis was to extract from the user
interaction log ﬁle a sequence of user actions and their du-
ration.6 The actions were:
• browser resizing
• font size change
• changing number of columns (only possible with hori-
• scrolling by grab-and-drag
• scrolling by scroll ball
• scrolling by scrollbar
• scrolling by using page up, page down or the space bar
• scrolling using other keys
• scrolling using the overview
To account for the fact that quickly dragging a scrollbar
or ﬂicking a scroll ball results in multiple scrolling events,
consecutive scrolling events within one second of each other
were collapsed into a single scrolling action.7

A preliminary data analysis showed that there was corre-
lation between the choice of story and the time taken to read
the story and the time taken to answer the questions. This
is not surprising. To ensure valid analysis we therefore made
sure the experiment data was exactly counterbalanced with
each story presented the same number of times with both
horizontal- and vertical-scroll layout.
5.2 User preferences
Layout model preference: In the post-questionnaire each
participant was asked which layout model they were more
comfortable reading text with and why they felt that this
model was preferable. 8 participants were more comfortable
with horizontal-scroll layout and 16 preferred vertical-scroll
layout.

Examination of the reasons given by participants who felt
more comfortable reading with vertical-scroll layout sug-
gests that their familiarity with vertical scrolling and rel-
ative unfamiliarity with horizontal scrolling was a major
factor in their choice. For instance, one participant who
chose vertical-scroll layout as more comfortable wrote that
“It [vertical-scroll layout] is what I am used to” while an-
other wrote “Horizontal scrolling is something new and I

6The minimum duration for a scroll event was 0.3 sec, the
time for the smooth scrolling animation to stop.
7While the choice of one second is somewhat arbitrary, in
the following data analyzes we repeated the analysis using
a cut-oﬀ for coalescing events ranging from 0.2 seconds to 4
seconds in 0.1-second increments. This resulted in relatively
little change and in particular did not change the signiﬁcance
of any results at the 0.01, 0.05 or 0.1 levels except where
noted.

WWW 2009 MADRID!Track: User Interfaces and Mobile Web / Session: User Interfaces835Page keys Other keys

Scroll ball

Scrollbar Overview Grab & drag

Reading
Horizontal
Vertical
Questions
Horizontal
Vertical

1 (1)
1 (2)

0 (0)
1 (1)

4 (4)
3 (4)

3 (4)
2 (2)

5 (6)

12 (13)

6 (7)

11 (12)

5 (6)
3 (6)

7 (9)
3 (8)

0 (2)
0 (1)

1 (1)
0 (1)

5 (5)
1 (1)

3 (4)
2 (3)

Table 1: For each scrolling mechanism, the number of people who used that as their primary scrolling method
(followed by the number of people who used that mechanism at all) when reading the story in each of the
two layouts, and when answering the questions for that story.

wasn’t used to it” but also wrote that “LCD screens seem
to be more compatible for horizontal scrolling.” As some
support for the importance of familiarity, two-thirds of the
participants (16 out of 24) said that they read >10 hours
per week from a computer monitor.

Three participants who preferred vertical-scroll layout said
that they disliked that horizontal-scroll layout forced them
to move their eyes vertically up and down the full height
of the screen. (No participant chose to reduce the height
of the window and thus reduce this eye movement.) Such
vertical scanning is not required with vertical-scroll layout
since repeated scrolling can be used to move lines past the
same vertical position on the screen allowing minimal verti-
cal movement of the eyes. This is an interesting physiologi-
cal diﬀerence between the two layouts and it may indeed be
easier to move the eyes horizontally than vertically. It also
provides support for our hypothesis that diﬀerent scrolling
strategies will be used with the diﬀerent layout models.

Reasons for being more comfortable with horizontal-scroll
layout were shorter line length and that it was easier to keep
track of their position in the document when reading.

Participants were also asked how their least preferred lay-
out model could be improved. The most interesting response
was from one participant who suggested that page bound-
aries would help with reading in horizontal scrolling (pre-
sumably to aid navigation).

The provision of an overview in the tool seems to have
been eﬀective in clarifying the diﬀerence between horizon-
tal and vertical-scroll layout since none of the participants
expressed confusion between the two diﬀerent layouts.

Preferred scrolling mechanism: In Table 1, we give
for each scrolling mechanism and each layout model and
each part (reading the story, and answering questions) the
number of participants who used that mechanism during
that part. We found that, during reading, the scrollbar and
scroll ball are the much preferred mechanism for scrolling
with vertical layout but with horizontal layout the preferred
mechanisms are grab-and-drag, scroll ball and arrow keys.
The diﬀerence is less marked in question answering.

To test whether there is a statistically signiﬁcant diﬀer-
ence in what scrolling mechanisms are primarily used for
the two layout models, we use a χ2 test of independence. In
the case of reading, we have χ2(df = 4) = 6.2, p = 0.18;
for question answering, we have χ2(df = 5) = 5.4, p > 0.2.
These χ2 values are without correcting for continuity; if we
use Yates’ correction, or if we use a Monte Carlo simulation
instead of assuming a χ2 distribution, then the signiﬁcance
is less still. Thus the study does not ﬁnd suﬃcient evidence
that diﬀerent scrolling mechanisms would be used with the
two models.

Interestingly, the preferences for scrolling model and for
layout model were related. Of the six participants for whom
grab-and-drag was the primary scrolling mechanism, only
one preferred horizontal-scroll layout; whereas where arrow
keys were the primary scrolling mechanism, the situation
was reversed, with ﬁve of six preferring horizontal-scroll lay-
out! This suggests that layout preference might depend on
the scrolling mechanisms typically used with the target de-
vice (or software or readership).

Other preferences: We might also expect that scroll
layout model might aﬀect the choice of window size or font
size. Only two participants chose to change the window size
from full-screen. In both cases it was for vertical-scroll lay-
out and just the window width was reduced, presumably to
reduce the length of the text lines. Interestingly, both these
occurred in cases where vertical scrolling was conducted af-
ter horizontal scrolling—perhaps the participants had be-
come accustomed and more comfortable with the shorter line
length provided with horizontal-scroll layout. Every partici-
pant who changed the font size changed it to about the same
font size in each of their two versions. One participant de-
creased the font size to 70%, one participant increased to
120%, and one participant increased to 160% in one version
(VC1) and 170% in the other (HP2). Of the 20 logged par-
ticipants, 13 kept the default three columns, another four
participants brieﬂy tried other numbers of columns before
switching back to three columns; two participants used four
columns; and one participant used three columns most of
the time but tried two columns for 3 1
2 minutes in the mid-
dle of their reading. One participant made the comment
that they wished they had changed to two columns in the
post-questionnaire.

A consequence of this is that while participants were free
to vary the browser window size, font size and number of
columns, the low number of participants who did so miti-
gates the possible confounding eﬀect of these factors in the
following performance analysis.
5.3 Performance

Number of scrolling actions and total duration:
Figure 3 shows for both the reading and question answer-
ing tasks SAV − SAH where SAH is the number of scrolling
actions for the horizontal-scroll layout SAV that for vertical-
scroll layout and also SDV −SDH where SDH is the cumula-
tive duration of the scrolling actions for the horizontal-scroll
layout and SDV that for vertical-scroll layout. Symbols in-
dicate the most common scrolling mechanism used by the
), other
participant for reading each story: Page keys (
keys (
), overview (
), grab-
and-drag (

), scroll ball (

), scrollbar (

).

Since we do not know what the underlying distribution
is, we use the Wilcoxon matched-pairs signed ranks test to

WWW 2009 MADRID!Track: User Interfaces and Mobile Web / Session: User Interfaces836Reading — # Scrolling Actions

Reading — Duration of Scrolling

Question Answering — # Scrolling Actions

Question Answering — Duration of Scrolling

Figure 3: For each participant the diﬀerence between the number of scrolling actions and their cumulative
duration with vertical- and horizontal-scroll layout. Figures are given for both reading and question an-
swering time. Participants are split into the diﬀerent versions of the experiment: For instance, HC1 → V P 2
indicates the version in which the ﬁrst story was The Cellmate (C) presented in horizontal-scroll layout (H)
followed by Prairie Dogs (P) presented in vertical-scroll layout (V). Symbols pairs indicate the most common
scrolling mechanism used by the participant for reading the horizontal-scroll layout and vertical-scroll layout,
respectively.

check for signiﬁcance. Our hypothesis was that participants
would perform fewer scrolling actions and spend less time
scrolling when reading. The study supports this: a one-
tailed test for scrolling duration gives W (N = 20) = 44,
p = .01 (p slightly more or less than .01 for diﬀerent coalesce-
cutoﬀ-durations), while a one-tailed test for number of ac-
tions gives W (N = 19) = 11, p < .001 (with slightly weaker
signiﬁcance for cutoﬀ durations less than 500ms, p as high
as .012 for 200ms). We also performed a one-tailed test
for question answering. The study less strongly supported
the hypotheses that horizontal scrolling had less scrolling
duration (W (N = 20) = 54, p = .03), and fewer scroll ac-
tions (W (N = 19) = 54, p = .05, but with p varying from
about .03 to over .1 for diﬀerent coalesce-cutoﬀ-durations)
for question answering.

A possible reason for this might be that more scrolling was
required with the vertical-scroll model than for horizontal
scrolling. We computed for the initial conﬁguration of the
browser the minimum distance in pixels that the user needed
to scroll to read the entire document, i.e. the amount needed
to scroll the initial view to show the last line/column of each
story for horizontal and vertical layout. This gave HP :
1697, V P : 2043, HC : 1697 and V C : 2055. Thus there is
very little diﬀerence between the size of the two stories and
while the stories took up slightly more screen space laid out
with the vertical scroll the diﬀerence is not substantial.

Reading and question answering time: Table 2 gives
the average time spent by each participant during reading

and during question answering for each scroll model. Previ-
ous studies [6] have suggested that longer line lengths lead
to faster reading. In the case of question answering, our ini-
tial hypothesis was that columns might aid navigation and
so reduce the time required to check answers. However, our
study didn’t ﬁnd any evidence (p > .1 even for 1-tailed test)
of an eﬀect of layout model on total time for either reading
or answering questions, whether using t tests or Wilcoxon
matched-pairs signed ranks tests, and whether using the dif-
ference of the times or the ratio of the times.

We also evaluated the relationship between main scrolling
mechanism and performance. Table 2 groups participants
by their most frequently used scrolling mechanism (broken
down by layout model and task type), and shows the average
time spent during that task within that group. There is lit-
tle diﬀerence between the diﬀerent mechanisms except that
page keys have a higher time for reading associated with
them than the other mechanisms in both vertical and hor-
izontal layout. However, this should be treated cautiously
since we could not establish statistical signiﬁcance for this
as only two participants used page keys for reading.

Since participants could check their answers, there were
few errors and these were distributed fairly uniformly be-
tween horizontal- and vertical-scroll layout.
5.4 Scrolling strategies

One of the main goals of the study was to identify the
kinds of scrolling strategies used during reading. The analy-

WWW 2009 MADRID!Track: User Interfaces and Mobile Web / Session: User Interfaces837(a) Page scrolling (horizontal layout)

(b) Region scrolling (horizontal layout)

(c) Continuous scrolling (horizontal layout)

(d) Page scrolling (vertical layout)

(e) Region scrolling (vertical layout)

(f) Continuous scrolling (vertical layout)

Figure 4: Plots showing example scrolling strategies used by participants. For each example we give two
plots. Both show the full reading time (x-axis) in milliseconds. For horizontal layout the top plot gives the
participant’s gaze location in x-coordinates of the screen and the bottom plot shows the x scroll-oﬀset of the
browser window. For vertical layout the top plot shows the participant’s gaze location in y-coordinates of the
screen and the bottom shows the y scroll-oﬀset of the browser window. In (a), for instance, we can clearly
see the participant uses a page scrolling strategy where they read all three columns on the screen, scroll by
exactly three columns (a page), and repeat.

sis was qualitative. For each participant and short story for
which we had a non-truncated interaction log and calibrated
eye tracking data we generated two plots:
• The index of the last word visible in the browser window
• the x-position of the participant’s focus in the browser
window as a function of time for horizontal-scroll layout
and the y-position (with origin at the top) for vertical-
scroll layout.

as a function of time; and

We then looked at these paired plots and attempted to iden-
tify the scrolling strategy used by the participant when read-
ing the short story. Sample plots are shown in Figure 4.

The same basic strategies were shared across both vertical
and horizontal scroll layout:
• Page: The participant reads a screen at a time, scrolling
only when at the end of the screen and scrolling a (nearly)
complete screenful.
• Continuous: The participant scrolls near continuously,
reading the same small area on the screen as they scroll.
• Region: This is an intermediate strategy in which the
participant reads from the same region on the screen,
typically about half of the screen, and scrolls when they
reach the end of the region to update the text in the
region.

Participants tended to use a fairly consistently strategy when
reading the document, apart from at the start and end where
they needed to read from the top of the screen and down to
the bottom of the screen respectively.

Participants also tended to use a similar strategy in both
horizontal- and vertical-scroll layout. For vertical-scroll lay-
out 13% used the page strategy, 46% employed the con-
tinuous strategy and 31% read within a ﬁxed region.
In-
terestingly, this means over 75% of people reading vertical
scrolling text did not read the entire page before scrolling,
but rather chose to scroll more and read within a smaller
portion of the display.

For horizontal-scroll layout the participants were less likely
to use just a single strategy. Several participants visibly
switched between the page and region strategies midway
through the exercise. This probably reﬂects their unfamil-
iarity with horizontal scrolling. 50% of participants exhib-
ited the page reading strategy and 64% were seen to read
and then scroll by a subset of the visible columns (typically
the two leftmost columns). We were surprised to see that
one participant used a continuous scrolling strategy with
horizontal scroll layout (unsurprisingly, this participant pre-
ferred vertical scroll layout). Participants who switched be-
tween strategies were more likely to start out reading the
entire page and switch to reading a region of a couple of
columns.

WWW 2009 MADRID!Track: User Interfaces and Mobile Web / Session: User Interfaces838(a) horizontal scroll layout

(b) vertical scroll layout

Figure 5: Plots showing frequency of gaze location.
(a) gives the x-coordinate of the participant’s gaze
location on the screen for horizontal scroll layout and (b) gives the y-coordinate of the participant’s gaze
location on the screen for vertical scroll layout.

Horizontal
Page keys
Other keys
Scroll ball
Scrollbar
Overview
Grab-and-drag
All
Vertical
Page keys
Other keys
Scroll ball
Scrollbar
Overview
Grab-and-drag
All

Reading

Questions

674 (n = 1) — (n = 0)
489 (n = 4)
412 (n = 4)
464 (n = 6)
— (n = 0)
457 (n = 5)
462 (n = 20)

103 (n = 3)
188 (n = 6)
180 (n = 7)
165 (n = 1)
211 (n = 3)
172 (n = 20)

753 (n = 2)
423 (n = 3)
402 (n = 11)
482 (n = 2)
— (n = 0)
421 (n = 2)
459 (n = 20)

102 (n = 1)
177 (n = 2)
188 (n = 11)
110 (n = 3)
— (n = 0)
187 (n = 3)
171 (n = 19)*

Table 2: Average time taken to read and answer
questions for the horizontal- and vertical-scroll lay-
out, broken down by primary scrolling mechanism
during that part of the task for that layout model.
Note (*) that one participant didn’t scroll at all
when answering questions for the vertical-scroll lay-
out, so ‘most used method’ isn’t deﬁned for that
case.

Another aspect that we investigated was the region of the
screen where the participant was most likely to be reading.
This is shown in Figure 5. We see that for horizontal-scroll
layout reading from the middle of the screen is most common
while for vertical-scroll layout the bottom of the screen is
most common, though there is another peak about one third
of the way down the screen.

We also investigated whether the preferences for scrolling
model and for layout model were related. Of the six par-
ticipants for whom continuous scrolling was the primary
scrolling strategy for vertical-scroll layout, only one pre-
ferred horizontal-scroll layout. This accords with the dis-
like of some participants for the need to move their eyes too
much vertically in horizontal-scroll layout.

6. DISCUSSION

We have investigated the eﬀect of layout model on how
people scroll and read textual documents on computer mon-
itors. The main ﬁndings are:

• One third of participants found reading with horizontal-
scroll layout more comfortable than reading with the
standard vertical-scroll layout model. We found that
overall reading and question answering performance was
similar with both layouts.
• With vertical-scroll layout many (46%) participants use
a scrolling strategy which minimizes vertical eye move-
ment by using frequent scrolling of a few lines. Few
(13%) read most of the page before scrolling. Fixation
is more likely to be in the bottom part of the page.
• With horizontal scrolling, it was most common for par-
ticipants to scroll one or two columns at time (64%) but
reading a page at a time was also common (50%). Fixa-
tion is more likely to be in the middle part of the page.
• Quantitative analysis of the data supported our qual-
itative identiﬁcation of diﬀerences in scrolling strategy
between the two layout models. We found that partici-
pants spent less time scrolling and scrolled less often with
horizontal-scroll layout than vertical-scroll layout. Pre-
ferred scrolling mechanisms for horizontal scrolling are
more varied than for vertical scrolling and include more
use of keys and less use of the scroll ball and scrollbar.
• Participant comments suggest that familiarity with verti-
cal scroll-layout is one reason for preferring vertical-scroll
layout. Our results also suggested that layout model
preference was inﬂuenced by the choice of scrolling model
used in vertical-scroll layout: participants who used con-
tinuous scrolling were more likely to prefer vertical scroll
layout. Layout model preference also appeared to be
inﬂuenced by choice of scrolling mechanism: those who
used grab-and-drag as the primary scrolling mechanism
disproportionately preferred vertical-scroll layout while
those who preferred arrow keys disproportionately pre-
ferred horizontal-scroll layout.

While the results do not suggest that a majority of readers
prefer horizontal-scroll layout, they suggest that if it was
more widely available many readers might prefer to use it
once they were familiar with it. This provides support for
providing horizontal scroll layout in specialized software for
reading documents, such as manuals, e-books etc.

Our results suggest that horizontal-scroll layout will be
particularly popular on devices such as e-book readers that
have slow display refresh and so are not well-suited to con-
tinuous scrolling and environments where keys or voice com-

WWW 2009 MADRID!Track: User Interfaces and Mobile Web / Session: User Interfaces839[4] M. Dyson and M. Haselgrove. The inﬂuence of reading

speed and line length on the eﬀectiveness of reading
from screen. International Journal of
Human-Computer Studies, 54(4):585–612, 2001.

[5] M. Dyson and G. Kipping. The legibility of screen

formats: Are three columns better than one?
Computers & Graphics, 21(6):703–712, 1997.

[6] M. Dyson and G. Kipping. The eﬀects of line length

and method of movement on patterns of reading from
screen. Visible Language, 32(2):150–81, 1998.

[7] L. A. Granka, T. Joachims, and G. Gay. Eye-tracking
analysis of user behavior in WWW search. In SIGIR
’04: Proc. of the 27th Annual Intl. ACM SIGIR Conf.
on Research and Development in Information
Retrieval, pages 478–479. ACM, 2004.

[8] C. Jacobs, W. Li, E. Schrier, D. Bargeron, and

D. Salesin. Adaptive grid-based document layout.
ACM Transactions on Graphics, 22(3):838–847, 2003.
[9] M. Jones, G. Marsden, N. Mohd-Nasir, K. Boone, and

G. Buchanan. Improving web interaction on small
displays. In WWW ’99: Proc. of the 8th Intl. Conf. on
World Wide Web, pages 1129–1137. Elsevier, 1999.

[10] J. Nielsen. F-shaped pattern for reading web content.

Alertbox: Current Issues in Web Usability (retrieved
31 Oct 2008 from http: // www. useit. com/
alertbox/ reading_ pattern. html ), April 17, 2006.

[11] M. Schcolnik. A Study of Reading with Dedicated

E-Readers. PhD thesis, Nova Southeastern University,
2001.

[12] E. Schrier, M. Dontcheva, C. Jacobs, G. Wade, and

D. Salesin. Adaptive layout for dynamically
aggregated documents. In Proc. of the 13th Intl. Conf.
on Intelligent User Interfaces, pages 99–108. ACM,
2008.

[13] M. Tinker. Legibility of print. Iowa State University

Press, Ames, 1963.

[14] Y. Yesilada, C. Jay, R. Stevens, and S. Harper.

Validating the use and role of visual elements of web
pages in navigation with an eye-tracking study. In
WWW ’08: Proc. of the 17th Intl. Conf. on World
Wide Web, pages 11–20. ACM, 2008.

[15] M. Youngman and L. Scharﬀ. Text width and margin

width inﬂuences. (Presented at the South Western
Psychological Assoc.). Retrieved Aug. 10, 2007 from
http://hubel.sfasu.edu/research/textmargin.html,
1998.

[16] S. Zhai, B. Smith, and T. Selker. Improving Browsing

Performance: A study of four input devices for
scrolling and pointing tasks. In Proc. of the IFIP Intl.
Conf. on Human-Computer Interaction
(INTERACT), pages 286–293. Chapman & Hall, 1997.

mands are the primary scrolling mechanism. They also sug-
gest that vertical scrolling is well-suited to touchscreen de-
vices where grab-and-drag is the primary scrolling mecha-
nism. Furthermore, we found that, especially for vertical
scroll layout, most participants read from a smaller portion
of the text than the amount displayed on the screen, prefer-
ring to scroll more often than necessary. This suggests that
vertical scrolling my be well suited to devices with small
screens so long as they have quick display refresh. It also
suggests that with larger screens part of the display might
be better used to provide contextual information.

Of course, some caution is required when generalizing our
ﬁndings as they were only for reading short stories on a
standard computer monitor by students who generally spend
over 10 hours per week reading on a computer. We plan to
conduct further studies to see if our ﬁndings generalize to
other kinds of participants, devices and reading material.

The results also provide some support for the current pro-
posal to extend HTML and CSS to provide multi-column
layout.8 However, the current W3C Working Draft for CSS3
Multi-column layout does not directly support horizontal-
scroll layout since it speciﬁes that multi-column elements
have their height determined by column properties and the
available width for the element. Without using scripting it
is not possible to ﬁx the height of a multi-column element
and have its width be computed to contain the available
content. We feel this to be a deﬁciency with the draft—
especially when display of a large amount of content within
this model will cause column heights taller than a single
screen, forcing the reader to vertically scroll both forward
and back within the document to read from one column to
the next.

Our ﬁnding that participants were more likely to read at
the bottom of the screen with vertical-scroll layout is inter-
esting because it provides a guide to ﬂoating ﬁgure place-
ment: Ideally one wants to place the ﬂoat so that it will be
visible on the screen when a reference to it is encountered
in the text. This suggests that ﬁgures should be placed just
before the ﬁrst reference to the ﬁgure.

Acknowledgments
We thank Linda McIver for her insightful comments on the
experimental design, Nathan Hurst whose comments helped
to prompt the study, and Andreas Paepcke and the anony-
mous reviewers for their helpful comments.

7. REFERENCES
[1] J. R. Baker. Is multiple-column online text better? it

depends! Usability News, 7, 2005.

[2] R. Bringhurst. The elements of typographic style.

Hartley & Marks, 1996.

[3] M. Dyson. How physical text layout aﬀects reading

from screen. Behaviour and Information Technology,
23(6):377–393, 2004.

8CSS3 module: Multi-column layout, http://www.w3.org/
TR/css3-multicol/

WWW 2009 MADRID!Track: User Interfaces and Mobile Web / Session: User Interfaces840