Compositional Knowledge Management for Medical

Services on Semantic Web∗

Yugyung Lee, Chintan

Patel

School of Computing Engineering
University of Missouri - Kansas City

{leeyu,copdk4}@umkc.edu

Soon Ae Chun

Computing and Decision Sciences

James Geller
Computer Science

Seton Hall University

New Jersey Institute of Technology

chunsoon@shu.edu

geller@njit.edu

ABSTRACT
The vision of the Semantic Web is to reduce manual discovery
and usage of Web resources (documents and services) and to al-
low software agents to automatically identify these Web resources,
integrate them and execute them for achieving the intended goals
of the user. Such a composed Web service may be represented as
a workﬂow, called service ﬂow. Current Web service standards are
not sufﬁcient for automatic composition. This paper presents dif-
ferent types of compositional knowledge required for Web service
discovery and composition. As a proof of concept, we have imple-
mented our framework in a cardiovascular domain which requires
advanced service discovery and composition across heterogeneous
platforms of multiple organizations.
Categories and Subject Descriptors: I.2.4 [Knowledge Repre-
sentation Formalisms and Methods]: Representation Languages
General Terms: Management, Design
Keywords: Pragmatic Knowledge, Service Composition

1.

INTRODUCTION

In the past few years, the WWW has changed from being noth-
ing more than an indexed repository of documents towards being
a repository of interconnected services and documents. Web users
are now routinely checking the Web for services such as currency
converters, shortest driving distance with directions generators, etc.
Unfortunately, not every required service is available on the Web.
Therefore Web research has turned to the time-honored approach
of its parent discipline and attempts to provide complex services
by, in effect, combining simple services in the way of a workﬂow
of services, what we call a service ﬂow. However, the problem of
creating a service ﬂow for a given speciﬁcation is difﬁcult, and it is
a part of the vision of the Semantic Web [1] to let roaming agents
perform this difﬁcult task.

The automatic composition of services requires more than de-

scriptions of service capabilities and input/output parameters. Rather,
a service should also indicate in what situations and in what ways
it should be used. This is comparable to the manual of an elec-
tronic device that provides a service. We call this additional level
of description of Web services pragmatic or contextual knowledge.
A service should be described by a pragmatic annotation that rep-
resents this pragmatic knowledge, in addition to the semantic and
∗(Produces the WWW2004-speciﬁc release, location and copyright
information). For use with www2004-submission.cls V1.4. Sup-
ported by ACM.
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s).
WWW2004, May 17–22, 2004, New York, New York, USA.
ACM 1-58113-912-8/04/0005.

syntactic knowledge that describes the necessary parameters and
functionalities of the service.

Thus, this paper addresses two problems: (1) How do we deﬁne,
distinguish between, and justify the need for three different kinds
of knowledge to be used in service descriptions: syntactic knowl-
edge, semantic knowledge and pragmatic knowledge. We propose
a model to represent Web service compositional knowledge; (2)
How do heterogeneous medical services interoperate in a medical
service ﬂow, composed using these three kinds of knowledge. In
this paper, we present an architecture how a service ﬂow can be
automatically composed using syntactic, semantic and pragmatic
knowledge. We demonstrate how heterogeneous Web services can
be made interoperable within our framework. Our motivating ex-
amples are drawn from medical services, which should be called,
in our case, “Semantic Medical Services (SMS).”

2. SERVICE COMPOSITION MODEL

We will discuss three kinds of compositional knowledge. The
ﬁrst kind of compositional knowledge is based on a syntactic con-
straint, that is, if the syntactic constraints on compositionality can-
not be met, then a service is not composable and cannot be selected.
For example, a clinical service may require as a precondition a valid
patient ID, and as input the patient demographic information and
insurance information. As output it generates an order, and as ef-
fect the relevant patient data are collected and transferred to a sub-
sequent department. The selection of this service is constrained by
the fact that the agent must be able to supply the input patient ID.
If not, the service cannot be used by this agent.

The second kind of compositional knowledge is based on se-
mantic constraints. Web service compositionality often depends
on the proper order of two services. For instance, the health care
service provided by a hospital for a new patient requires an agent
to admit the patient ﬁrst, and then perform scheduling for this pa-
tient.
If this order is not respected, the two services (admission
and scheduling) cannot be composed. This ordering relationship
therefore constrains the compositionality of services. The selected
service is required to be part of the service ﬂow. Thus, the ap-
plication of semantic constraints (rules) plays a signiﬁcant role in
service compositionality. The semantic composition rules often re-
quire extensive domain expert knowledge, such as knowledge of
health care policies, drug regulations, health insurance policies, etc.
The third type of knowledge necessary for the composition of
services, which has been given little attention in the literature, is
contextual or pragmatic knowledge, which may also be expressed
by sets of rules. Pragmatic knowledge is about the situations in
which a service should be used. As such it is not about the service
itself, but about the way the service relates to the satisfaction of the

498goals of the consumer of the service ﬂow. In real life it is often
the case that several services possess the same proﬁle and provide
the same functionalities. The automated service selection may re-
quire pragmatic knowledge. For example, when selecting a lab for
a blood test, choose one that is close to the patient’s work place
or home. This pragmatic rule applies when several labs that are
in competition with each other provide the same type of services.
If the information is needed before a speciﬁc date, then a provider
that is more expensive may be acceptable. This kind of pragmatic
knowledge needs to be modelled in order for the agent to auto-
matically select one service over the other, and compose them in a
sensible and highly personalized way.

In summary, syntactic composition knowledge allows an agent
to consider all compositions with correct I/O conditions. Seman-
tic composition knowledge constrains the agent to make sensible
compositions that conform with the relevant policies and organi-
zational knowledge. Pragmatic composition knowledge allows the
agent to make reasonable compositions with respect to the needs
and preferences of the initiator of the agent. One may also look
at the three kinds of compositional knowledge from an outcomes
perspective. Without syntactic knowledge one cannot generate a
service ﬂow at all. Without semantic knowledge one cannot gen-
erate a service ﬂow that conforms to all existing rules and policies
and that produces an objectively reasonable result. Without prag-
matic knowledge one cannot guarantee a service ﬂow that produces
a useful result for the given circumstances.

3. SEMANTIC MEDICAL SERVICES

In medical research, there is a need to exchange valuable in-
formation between different researchers or research groups. How-
ever, it is difﬁcult to build automated procedures for resource shar-
ing (e.g., patient records or images), analysis across organizations,
which follow different data models and document structures. Most
existing health care infrastructures are based on legacy compo-
nents. Thus, interoperability across such different services from
different organizations becomes more difﬁcult. We need to have
some common “data medium” for information interchange between
the applications so that heterogeneous data can be easily converted
into formats understandable to respective applications.

As practical approaches to resolving these issues, work ﬂow so-
lutions have been successfully implemented in many health care en-
terprises1. Workﬂow technology offers several advantages, includ-
ing automation and streamlining of processes and signiﬁcant cost
reductions. Also, ongoing research efforts (Health Level 7 (HL7)
and Digital Imaging and Communications in Medicine (DICOM))
provide standards for the exchange, management and integration of
medical resources that support clinical patient care and the delivery
and evaluation of healthcare services. As these solutions are not at
a level sufﬁcient to resolve all relevant issues, additional research
is required on how to handle them.

We are in process of developing developing Semantic Medical
Services, where we are in the process of integrating various infor-
matics solutions to facilitate collaborative medical research. The
SMS architecture (Figure 1) basically contains the following com-
ponents: SMS Editor allows mapping of service parameters (input,
output, preconditions, effects) to concepts in predeﬁned medical
ontologies. New ontologies could be loaded in the editor. The
editor parses the WSDL (Web service Deﬁnition Language) doc-
uments and creates the service grounding descriptions. One inter-
esting feature is plugging of new medical ontologies (required for
mapping service parameters). Once stored in the composition rule

Figure 1: The SMS System Architecture

KB these ontologies are used by the Semantic Matching component
(SEMIO). SMS Evaluator performs evaluation of a service, based
on the pragmatics deﬁned for selection of a particular service. SMS
Composer evaluates services using syntactic and semantic rules.
The service composition aspects was bit tricky where we followed
a cyclic approach: matching of concepts followed by pragmatic
evaluation. SMS Execution Engine actually executes the services.
We used some of the existing tools available for this purpose2, this
tool mandates the process speciﬁcation in speciﬁc format.

4. RELATED WORK

Current Web services support a certain level of interoperability
in using and accessing them. The next level of interoperability can-
not be achieved by just making services available, but requires pro-
viding automatic mechanisms so that the services can be linked
in appropriate and meaningful ways. Automatic composition and
interoperability of Web services [4] have been achieved through
mapping, service veriﬁcation, and execution monitoring.

Scientiﬁc workﬂow [2] is supposed to support interoperation thro-
ugh semantics. It may have the potential to support Web service
descriptions for service discovery, invocation, activation and ex-
ecution of an identiﬁed service by an agent or other service [4].
Unlike these efforts, our approach emphasizes the importance of
different kinds of knowledge for heterogeneous semantics for the
automatic composition of service ﬂows. There have been efforts
in representing business contracts for service evaluation and nego-
tiations [3] but how to use such pragmatic knowledge for service
matching remains still unresolved.

5. CONCLUSION

In this paper, we have laid out an architecture of the knowledge
processing that is necessary for composing individual services into
service ﬂows. We have classiﬁed service description knowledge
into syntactic, semantic and pragmatic composition rules that play a
major role in discovery, selection and composition of Web services.
The description of rules with service concepts allows the system to
identify the relevant rules in a certain domain and to identify and
select appropriate Web services for composition.

6. REFERENCES
[1] T. Berners-Lee, J. Hendler, and O. Lassila. The Semantic Web. Scientiﬁc

American, 284(5), pp. 34-43, May 2001

[2] J. Cardoso and A. Sheth. Semantic e-workﬂow composition. Technical report,

University of Georgia, July 2002.

[3] B. N. Grosof, T. C. Poon, SweetDeal: Representing Agent Contracts with

Exceptions using XML Rules, Ontologies, and Process Descriptions, In Proc
of WWW 2003, May 20-24, 2003, Budapest, Hungary.

[4] S. McIlraith, T. Son, and H. Zeng. Semantic Web services. IEEE Intelligent

Systems, 16(2):46-53, 2001.

1http://www.e-workﬂow.org/case studies/healthcare/

2http://taverna.sourceforge.net/

 SMS Service Composition  Service Evaluator Service Discovery &  Semantic Matching SMS Execution EngineSMS Service RequestService CompositionSMS Editing Tools Composition Rule KB SMS Service Design The SMS System S E M I O 499