Automatically Collecting, Monitoring, and Mining

Japanese Weblogs

Interdisciplinary Graduate School of Science and

Interdisciplinary Graduate School of Science and

Tokyo Institute of Technology

4259 Nagatsuta Midori Yokohama 226-8503

Tokyo Institute of Technology

4259 Nagatsuta Midori Yokohama 226-8503

Tomoyuki NANNO

Engineering

Japan

Toshiaki FUJIKI

Engineering

Japan

nanno@lr.pi.titech.ac.jp

fujiki@lr.pi.titech.ac.jp

Interdisciplinary Graduate School of Science and

Yasuhiro SUZUKI

Tokyo Institute of Technology

4259 Nagatsuta Midori Yokohama 226-8503

Engineering

Japan

yasu@lr.pi.titech.ac.jp

ABSTRACT
We present a system that tries to automatically collect and monitor
Japanese blog collections that include not only ones made with blog
softwares but also ones written as normal web pages. Our approach
is based on extraction of date expressions and analysis of HTML
documents. Our system also extracts and mines useful information
from the collected blog pages.
Categories and Subject Descriptors
H.5.4 [Information Systems]: Hypertext/Hypermedia; H.3.5 [In-
formation Systems]: Online Information Services
General Terms
Management
Keywords
weblog, document analysis, monitoring, text mining, trend analysis
1.

INTRODUCTION

The reputation of companies and products is now disseminated
very quickly on the WWW, because everyone can send a message
to the world easily and actively. Therefore, it is highly required to
effectively utilize such a vast amount of information disseminated
from many people around the world, for the purpose of ﬁnding out
the reputation of a company or a product, and quickly coping with
people’s opinions as a kind of risk management, etc.

Weblogs(blogs) are now one of the information sources that have
attracted much attention for these reasons. Although the deﬁnition
of blogs is not necessarily deﬁnite, it is generally understood that
they are personal web pages authored by a single individual and
made up of a sequence of dated entries of the author’s thoughts, that
are arranged chronologically. It is said that blogs date back to 1996,
but they exploded in popularity during 1999 with the emergence of
easy-to-use publishing tools[4].

Recently, the study on analyzing the space of weblogs has be-
come a hot topic, and there are some sites that provide blog search
services, by collecting and watching blogs, such as Technorati1,

Manabu OKUMURA

Precision and Intelligence Laboratory

Tokyo Institute of Technology

4259 Nagatsuta Midori Yokohama 226-8503

Japan

oku@pi.titech.ac.jp

Blogdex2. These services are all based on the RSS(RDF Rich Site
Summary) and/or the ping server for collecting and watching blogs.
RSS is an extensible metadata description and syndication format,
currently used for a number of applications, including news and
other headline syndication, weblog syndication, etc 3. The ping
server is a mechanism to tell that a weblog has changed and is
used for tracking updates to weblogs[6]. Therefore, collection and
watching of blogs is considered to be relatively easy.

In Japan, however, since long before blog softwares became avail-
able, people have written ‘diaries’ on the web(called “web diaries”),
that are quite similar to blogs in the content, and people still write
them without any blog softwares. Therefore, (as we will show,)
hand-edited collections of blogs are quite numerous in Japan, though
most people now think of blogs as pages usually published using
one of the variants of public-domain blog software, such as ‘Mov-
able Type’4. Therefore, it is quite difﬁcult to exhaustively collect
Japanense blogs, i.e., collect ones made with blog softwares and
web diaries written as normal web pages.

With this as the motivation for our work, we present a system
that tries to automatically collect and monitor Japanese blog col-
lections that include not only ones made with blog softwares but
also ones written as normal web pages. Our approach is based on
extraction of date expressions and analysis of HTML documents,
to avoid having to depend on speciﬁc blog softwares, RSS, or the
ping server. Furthermore, our system also extracts and mines useful
information from the collected blog pages.

2. ARCHITECTURE OF OUR SYSTEM

The architecture of our system is shown in Figure 1. The ‘Collec-
tion’ module tries to collect candidate blog pages from the WWW.
This is done 1) by crawling the WWW, 2) by using the link lists of
blog sites and the information from the ping server, and 3) from the
links of the pages judged as blogs in the judgment module.

The ‘Blog Judgment’ module tries to select only the blog pages
in the collection, by using the characteristics of the blog pages. A
page is judged to be a blog if and only if a sequence of entries that
are articles for a day can be extracted from the page. The entries
should satisfy the following constraints:

1http://www.technorati.com/
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s).
WWW2004, May 17–22, 2004, New York, New York, USA.
ACM 1-58113-912-8/04/0005.

2http://blogdex.media.mit.edu/
3http://www.oasis-open.org/cover/rss.html
4http://www.movabletype.org

320Figure 1: System Architecture

Figure 2: Distribution of the collected blog entries

1. Entries should contain a date expression, and it should be at

the top of the entry.

2. The date expressions of the sequence of entries should be

consistently formatted5, and be arranged in ascending/descending
order.

3. The tag sequence should be uniform for all the entries in the

sequence.

The ‘Monitoring’ module tries to periodically watch the blog
pages that the judgment module selected, and extract the updated
entries in the pages.

The process of blog judgment is as follows. First, we automati-
cally extract date expressions in web pages and annotate them with
hdatei and h/datei tags, by using the manually written regular ex-
pressions. If the date expressions lack year and/or month informa-
tion, we try to supplement them by using heuristics, such as the
nearest year(month) that appears before the expression.

Next, the sequence of entries for a day is tried to be extracted
from a page. Even if such a sequence is extracted from a page,
the page might not be a blog, because archives of BBSs, chats, and
mailing lists, and announcements of events can also include date
expressions. To remove such non-blog pages, we apply heuristics
to the collection, that take into account the following:

1. typical keywords included in non-blog pages, such as ‘bbs,’

‘chat,’ ‘reply,’ and ‘re:’.

2. entries with future date expressions, which might indicate

announcements.

3. whether the time between two adjacent entries is within a

month6.

4. whether at least one predicate(verb, adjective, etc.) is con-
tained in an entry, since blogs and diaries should include de-
scriptions on an event.

The collected blog entries can be retrieved by using a text search
engine called GETA[2]. The entries can be ranked by the number
of inbound links, interval of updates, freshness(recency), and their
size.

We also try to mine the collected blog entries. Trend analysis is
performed in the collection. Degree of ‘burstiness’ is computed for
words, and a ‘hot’ keywords list that reﬂects the popular topics in a
certain period is generated from the collection.

The ‘burst of a word’ is a phrase to indicate a sharp rise in fre-
quency as the topic emerges[3], and originally in Kleinberg’s work,
targeting E-mail and research papers, his text mining algorithm
tried to identify bursts in document streams in which messages ar-
rive in temporal order. Simply put, a burst can be found by search-
ing periods when the word tends to appear at shorter intervals than
usual.

Unfortunately, as Kleinberg’s original algorithm cannot be ap-
plied to blogs, we extended it[3] so it could discover dense periods
of ‘burstiness’ in the blogs. The reason why the original algorithm
cannot be applied to blogs is that as Figure 2 indicates, since the
distribution of the blog entries is not uniform, the interval at which
5‘2003/1/2’ and ‘2-Jan-2003’ are considered as inconsistent.
6Blogs and diaries will likely be updated more frequently.

entries arrive tends to be shorter in the period when more blog en-
tries arrive, and consequently, more bursts tend to be erroneously
identiﬁed.

Subjective(evaluative) expressions in blog entries can also be au-
tomatically annotated and highlighted[5] in our system. The auto-
matic annotation is done by using a naive pattern matching algo-
rithm with a manually constructed dictionary of evaluative expres-
sions.
3. CURRENT STATUS AND EVALUATION
We have operated our system for two weeks since the end of De-
cember 2003, and obtained 39,272 blogs(pages) and 466,809 en-
tries. Figure 2 shows the distribution of the dates for the collected
entries. Our system can obtain rather old entries, whereas the col-
lection methods based on RSS and/or the ping server can obtain
only recent entries.

300 blogs randomly sampled from the collection were manually
evaluated, and we found that 283 were actually blogs(94.3%) and
17(5.7%) were not, although in 24 of the correct ones extraction of
entries was not completely correct.

By using the perl module that tries to detect what kind of blog
creation tool was used for its creation[1](we patched it for Japanese),
we found that of 39,272 pages, 32,219(82.0%) were judged as not
using any blog tools and that the most popular blog tool was Mov-
able Type(2,243;5.7%).

We now give two examples of the bursty phenomena obtained by
our algorithm. For the word ‘Olympics’, we could ﬁnd three peri-
ods when bursts occurred: February of 1998(at Nagano), Septem-
ber of 2000(at Sydney), and February of 2002(at Salt Lake City).
As for the hot keywords list, for June of 2002 we could obtain a list
that included ‘World Cup,’ ‘Turkey,’ ‘England,’ and ‘Beckham,’
reﬂecting that the World Cup soccer championships were held in
Japan and Korea during that period. At the conference site, we will
show a demonstration of our latest system and discuss its latest sta-
tus(the number of collected blogs, etc.).
4. REFERENCES
[1] M. Ceglowski. Www::blog::identify - identify blogging tools

based on url and content.
http://search.cpan.org/˜mceglows/
WWW-Blog-Identify-0.06/Identify.pm, 2003.

[2] IPA(Information-technology Promotion Agency, Japan).

Generic engine for transposable association: Geta.
http://geta.ex.nii.ac.jp/, 2002.

[3] J. Kleinberg. Bursty and hierarchical structure in streams. In
Proc. of the 8th ACM SIGKDD International Conference on
Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining, pages 1–25, 2002.
[4] R. Kumar, J. Novak, P. Raghavan, and A. Tomkins. On the

bursty evolution of blogspace. In Proc. of the 12th
International World Wide Web Conference, pages 568–576,
2003.

[5] J. Wiebe, E. Breck, C. Buckley, and C. Cardie. Recognizing

and organizing opinions expressed in the world press. In Proc.
of the 2003 AAAI Spring Symposium New Directions in
Question Answering, pages 12–19, 2003. Technical Report
SS-03-07.

[6] D. Winer. Weblogs.com xml-rpc interface.

http://www.xmlrpc.com/weblogsCom, 2001.

321