Organizing the Unorganized – Employing IT to Empower

the Under-privileged

Arun Kumar, Nitendra Rajput, Sheetal Agarwal,

Dipanjan Chakraborty, Amit Anil Nanavati

IBM India Research Laboratory

4, Block C, Vasant Kunj, Institutional Area, New Delhi - 110070, INDIA.
{kkarun, rnitendra, sheetaga, cdipanjan, namit}@in.ibm.com

ABSTRACT
Various sectors in developing countries are typically domi-
nated by the presence of a large number of small and micro-
businesses that operate in an informal, unorganized man-
ner. Many of these are single person run micro-businesses
and cannot aﬀord to buy and maintain their own IT in-
frastructure. For others, easy availability of cheap labour
provides a convenient alternative even though it results in
ineﬃciency, as little or no records are maintained, and only
manual, paper-based processes are followed. This results in
high response times for customers, no formal accountabil-
ity and higher charges. For the businesses this translates to
lower earnings and losses due to ineﬃciencies. In this paper,
we look at few such micro-business segments and explore
their current models of operation, while identifying existing
ineﬃciencies and pain points. We build upon the ﬁndings
and propose an approach for delivering beneﬁts of IT solu-
tions to such micro-business segments. Finally, we present
technology that realizes the proposed approach in the spe-
ciﬁc context of two such segments.

Categories and Subject Descriptors
H.5.2 [Information Systems]: Information Interfaces and
Presentation User Interfaces[Voice I/O, User-centered de-
sign]

General Terms
Human Factors, Design

Keywords
Developing regions, Voice applications, Virtual communities

1.

INTRODUCTION

Diﬀerent service sectors and market segments in develop-
ing countries like India are plagued with ineﬃciencies, low
productivity and wastage of resources. A major factor con-
tributing to this is the dominant presence of informal, un-
organized businessmen who rely on manual processes and
cheap human labour rather than automation through the
use of Information and Communication Technologies (ICT).
This is understandable since a signiﬁcant percentage of pop-
ulation in developing countries lies near or at the bottom of
Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Com-
mittee (IW3C2). Distribution of these papers is limited to classroom use,
and personal use by others.
WWW 2008, April 21–25, 2008, Beijing, China.
ACM 978-1-60558-085-2/08/04.

the pyramid [14], and cannot aﬀord their own IT infras-
tructure. For instance, in India alone people in rural areas
account for about 70% of the population which amounts to
about 700 million [5]. Most large cities also have a sizable
population consisting of people who have migrated from vil-
lages to earn a living. Such people are typically illiterate
or semi-literate and earn around Rs. 60000/- per annum
(approx USD 1500) or less.

We conducted a survey of 47 subjects in our target pop-
ulation across 10 cities and small towns in India to ﬁnd out
about their ICT awareness. The professions of the sub-
jects varied from people in service industry such as house
maids, milkmen, drivers, to very small businessmen such as
shop-owners, vegetable and fruit vendors, to skilled micro-
businessmen such as plumbers, carpenters, electricians, hand-
loom weavers, to employed personnel such as security guards,
cab drivers, etc. We asked them questions regarding the
channels they used for obtaining information, the use of ICT
in their professional and personal life, interaction with their
clients, use of mobile and their ﬁnancial status, lifestyle etc.
Only 23% of the people surveyed try to advertise them-
selves through some means such as personal contacts, gov-
ernment agencies, phone, or through a contractor. Only 40%
people owned a phone out of which only 4% had a landline
and rest had a mobile. 17% people used phone to communi-
cate with their clients, while 4% used paper based communi-
cation mechanism, 2% communicated through government
established channels, 2% communicated face to face, and 2%
had no direct communication with their clients. Rest 73% of
the subjects did not feel the need to communicate with their
clients. For some professions it was understandable such as
for auto-rickshaws which pick up passengers when hailed on
the street but interestingly many shopkeepers also did not
feel the need to have a channel of communication with their
customers.

55% of the subjects surveyed had TV at home. However,
only 32% used it to gather information. About 21% used
newspapers, 2% used radio and 36% used word-of-mouth as
their source of information. Rest did not feel the need for
any formal channel to gather information.

In terms of their ﬁnancial status, only 21% had a bank ac-
count in the family and only 4% accepted cheques (in addi-
tion to cash) as a mode of payment. None of them accepted
credit cards or any other kind of plastic money. Only a little
above 8% make a reservation before travelling by train.

The authors’ own experiences, the survey results, and
studies conducted by others [3, 6] indicate very little use
of ICT by this user segment. This tends to make them very

935informal in their business or profession and results in lot of
disorganization. As a result, there are failed commitments,
little or no accountability, and ineﬃciencies in markets lead-
ing to suboptimal behaviour [6]. This also enables many
of these informal businesses to evade taxes since no formal
accounting records are maintained [3].

However, with globalization and proliferation of new tech-
nologies these informal businesses are facing diﬃculties in
keeping pace with new competition and increasing demands
of their customers. Introduction of basic ICT such as mo-
biles, PC, Internet have helped improve various sectors such
as the ﬁshing industry [6]. There are other eﬀorts such as
aAqua [15] that go beyond the basic ICT plumbing, to oﬀer
useful services to this target population.

Paper Contribution: There are three key contributions
of this paper. The ﬁrst is to identify the pain-points of the
mobile micro-businesses, from two angles. The ﬁrst view-
point is to look at micro-business from a service-provider’s
angle and the second is to seek the pain-points of customers
of these micro-businesses. For this paper, we restrict mobile
micro-business to household services that are provided by
plumbers, carpenters, electricians, painters kind of skilled
labourers. We also include auto-rickshaw service in our def-
inition of micro-business. We use user interviews for this
purpose. The second contribution of this paper is to pro-
pose organization of these micro-businesses as a solution
approach the use of virtual online communities as a spe-
ciﬁc solution to the pain-points for this population segment.
Finally, we validate the applicability and usability of the
proposed solution through user-studies.

Paper Organization: The rest of the paper is organized
as follows.
In Section 2, we study two speciﬁc segments
and inspect the operational models prevalent there. We
summarise the pain points of these two segments of mobile
micro-business. In Section 3 we propose a solution approach
to overcome drawbacks of current models by proposing the
concept of organizing micro-businesses into a virtual com-
munity. We also present detailed results of the user surveys
with respect to the proposed community based solution. In
Section 4, we present technology solutions for creating a vir-
tual online community for the two micro-business segments.
We also perform a user study to validate the usability of a
prototype implementation and report the user evaluation re-
sults. Finally, we discuss the applicability of our approach in
other segments in Section 5 and present some related work
in Section 6 before concluding the paper.

2. APPLICATION SCENARIOS

In this section, we look at two speciﬁc unorganized sectors

in India that can signiﬁcantly beneﬁt by leveraging IT.
2.1 Mobile Micro-businesses

Many people in the lower end of the pyramid especially
those who migrate to cities from rural villages, pick up a
small trade skill to earn a living. These include plumbing,
gardening, driving, welding, carpentry, repairing of bicycles
and motored vehicles among others.

The size of such unorganized workforce in India is about
370 million people [16]. This forms 93% of the total work-
force in India. A signiﬁcant fraction of this workforce is
semi-literate, i.e. they have less than 5 years of elementary
education. Skilled labourers such as plumbers, electricians,
carpenters are a part of this workforce.

2.1.1 Surveys

We surveyed 26 skilled labourers in the Delhi region. The
aim of this survey was to identify the pain points in their
current operational model. We asked them the following
questions and the results are summarized in table below.

for work?

• How much time in a week are you free while available
• Are you willing to go to far oﬀ places due to lack of
• Are multiple conﬂicting requests that might result in

work in the neighbourhood?

loss of work, a problem?

Table 1: Summary of responses from skilled labour-
ers

Questions

20%-60% Idle time?

Willing to travel to get work?
Conﬂicting requests a problem?

Yes No
75% 25%(< 20% idle)
43% 57%
0% 100%

As is evident from the surveys, most often these labourers
are idle while available for work. For some people, this idle
time goes as high as 60%, i.e. they get work only on 12 days
in a month. This was one of the most common pain points
of this community. Secondly, since not everybody gets work
in the nearby area, sometimes they have to accept assign-
ments that are at far oﬀ places. Even though almost all
travel outside their neighbourhood at times, 57% people do
not ﬁnd it covenient. The travel costs (sometimes paid by
customer), problems in commuting through unreliable pub-
lic transport, and fatigue due to cycling to far oﬀ distances
are a deterrent.

Occasionally, a labourer may get multiple requests for the
same time and day. In such cases, most labourers are able
to convince the client for an alternate day and/or time. If
a reschedule is not possible, the labourers refer the work to
their colleagues. Overall, a conﬂicting request is not a pain
point with this segment.

Even though there exists such a large workforce, clients
often have trouble contacting them or ﬁnding information
about their services and their contact information.

We interviewed 25 customers to understand how they cur-
rently engage the service of such micro-businesses and asked
them the following questions with results summarized below.
• Do you face any diﬃculty in ﬁnding skilled labourers?
• Do you feel the need for a service to reach out to skilled
• Are you willing to pay a subscription for such a service?

labourers?

Table 2: Summary of responses from customers

Questions

Diﬃculty in ﬁnding labourers?

Need a service?

Willing to pay subscription?

Yes No
44% 56%
91.4% 8.6%
57% 43%

44% of the people said that ﬁnding these people is their

biggest hurdle. 91.4% of the subjects expressed a desire/interest
in a service that could connect them to the local micro busi-
nesses. They want it to be a one stop shop for all their
needs. If it provides guarantee of service 57.1% were willing
to pay a subscription fee.

9362.1.2 Current Operational Models

Diﬀerent operational models exist today, each with its own
drawbacks. Many such micro-businessmen work on their
own by visiting houses in a community to provide services.
Their business depends on the information that the commu-
nity has about them. As the number of people who know
them increases, their clientele increases. The primary mode
of advertising for these people is word-of-mouth references
from their existing customers or their colleagues in other
trades.

Yellow pages do not work in countries like India for mul-
tiple reasons. These people cannot aﬀord the cost of such
advertisements which are typically not updated frequently.
Even people who have a small shop only occasionally ad-
vertise themselves through ﬂiers that are cheaper to print
and are distributed along with daily newspaper. For cus-
tomers, it is tedious to search through printed yellow pages
and online web based yellow page services such as Just-
Dial 1 are only now beginning to emerge. However, the most
important pain-point for the customers that emerged from
these interviews was the lack of accountability and quality of
service guarantees that exists in these unorganized sectors.
Customers feel more conﬁdent to use services of a labourer
referred through a known person rather than using an un-
known one from yellow pages. Security concerns also come
into play and a referred person instills more trust than a
completely unknown one. Printed yellow pages do not pro-
vide any means to rely on the advertised labourer.

Customers rely instead on their social network of neigh-
bours and hired labourers such as security guards, maid ser-
vants etc. to search for other micro-businessesmen. In most
cases, they contact the local grocery store or utility store to
contact these people. The utility stores charge a small fee for
sending them the desired service men. But the choices are
limited and customers usually stick to the same person even
if he does a substandard job simply because the alternatives
are not always available.

A few organized models also exist.

In one such model,
these skilled labourers get themselves employed at some es-
tablishment such as a local electrical goods store (in case of
an electrician) or a local builder who constructs residential
houses on contract. This gives them credibility and a steady
stream or work. However, they get subjected to exploitation
by the establishment and most often get underpaid. In an-
other model, these workers get employed on an ad hoc basis
by community housing organizations where their responsi-
bility is to attend to repair needs of the housing complex.
Here the monthly earnings are ﬁxed, though this is usually
lower than what they would earn in their own business. Such
workers are contract employees and do not get health and in-
surance beneﬁts. Some brick and mortar concierge services
also exist today but their operating costs and overheads al-
low them to serve only high end customers.

2.2 Public Transportation

The second unorganized micro-business segment that we
look at, lies in the transportation sector. Auto-rickshaws or
simply ‘autos’, such as the one shown in Figure 1, are three-
wheeled vehicles that operate like taxis and are a favourite
mode of aﬀordable public transportation in countries like
India. However, they are either owned by the driver himself

1http://www.justdial.com

or are rented by him and are operated autonomously. Such
autos ply throughout various cities and towns of India.

Figure 1: An Auto-rickshaw

2.2.1 Surveys

We surveyed 30 auto drivers in three Tier-1 and Tier-2
cities of India — New Delhi, Bhopal and Jabalpur. The
interview consisted of following questions about their work
related pain points and ﬁndings are summarized in the table
below.

for customers, per day?

• How much time do you spend on an average waiting
• Do you own a mobile phone and use it for business?
• What is your daily expenditure?
• Do you face any harassment?

Table 3: Summary of responses from auto-drivers

Questions

High waiting time (7-8hrs)?

Use mobile for business?

High penalties?

Customer Harassment?

Yes No
58% 42%
33% 67%
82.6% 17.4%
34% 66%

From the interviews we found that most auto drivers op-
erate 12-14 hours a day. A surprising revelation was the
fact that out of this, the waiting time accounted for upto 7-
8 hours a day. 58% of the auto-drivers reported their daily
waiting time to vary from 7-8 hours while 42% reported it
to vary between 4-8 hours. This is the time when they are
forced to simply idle around at road sides waiting for pas-
sengers to come by. Very few auto drivers are engaged in
scheduled pick and drop arrangements. The primary reason
for this is the lack of a channel for communication needed
to achieve this. Of the drivers surveyed, about 58% owned
a mobile phone, yet only 33% used it for their clients. The
others used their mobiles as a family phone and therefore
did not carry them all the time, making it unavailable for
business use.

The drivers who have a mobile phone are able to accept
prior appointments during morning hours typically for of-
ﬁce or school drops. However, after that their location is
governed by the passengers that they get and they cannot
commit further pickups.
The daily expenditure including rent for the autos is typ-
ically between Rs 200 (≈USD 4.5)–Rs 250 ( USD 5.5) per
day, fuel and maintenance is another Rs 100 (USD 2 ap-
prox) per day. Additionally, they have to pay penalties to

937the traﬃc policemen for road blocking2 and other oﬀences.
These penalties account upto Rs 1500/- per month (USD 32
approx). Their average daily earnings (after the above ex-
penditure) vary between Rs 100 to Rs 150 per day amount-
ing to Rs 3000–Rs 5000 (approx USD 70 - USD 120) per
month.

There were other characteristics that were revealed. Most
of these auto drivers were willing to operate anywhere within
city limits but going out of the limits either required paying
extra taxes or was simply not allowed. However, towards
the end of day they prefer to only take passengers travelling
in the direction of their home location.

Some auto drivers also reported harassment by customers.
Since most autos do not follow meters, many a times cus-
tomers too go overboard and demand to be dropped for
very low charges. At other times, customers demand to
hire the auto even though it is not available for hire (such as
parked in a stand waiting for the next shift driver or waiting
daily checkup/repair). This is a negative side-eﬀect of eﬀorts
by law enforcing authorities to control rude behaviour and
unauthorised refusal by auto-drivers.

We surveyed the customers as well and asked them the

following questions:

Avg and Max. times.

• How much time do you spend to get an auto? Specify
• Would you want to do advance bookings?
• Biggest pain points of hiring an auto ?

We presented these questions to 33 auto-users and the

result are summarized in the table below.
Table 4: Summary of responses from auto-customers

Questions

High waiting time (10-30min)?

Want advance bookings?

Harassment?

Service Dissatisfaction?

Yes No
57.5% 42.5%
94% 6%
82% 18%
18% 82%

57.5% of them mentioned that they wait on an average 10
min to a maximum of 30 mins 94% of the people surveyed re-
sponded in positive to the second question. Among the pain
points, 82% people complained of having been forced to pay
more than the standard rates or drivers refusing to go the
desired destination, and 18% professed their dissatisfaction
with the impoliteness and rash driving of the drivers.

2.2.2 Current Operational Models

Unlike taxis which have their designated stands, autos
are hailed from the street and they rarely have designated
parking space while waiting for customers3. As can be seen
from the surveys, there are several ineﬃciencies in this mode
of operation. The long waiting times for the auto-drivers
result in their urge to be dishonest and to charge more than
what is ﬁxed by the transport authority. For similar reason,
auto-drivers often refuse to go to a place from where they
may not get more customers easily. Moreover, often while
waiting for customers on roadside or while picking up change
for a customer or on other occasions they get ﬁned by the
2There are very few designated auto-stands and most autos
commonly wait for customers in densely populated areas
such as markets and popular joints.
3In Kolkata, however, the opposite situation applies.

traﬃc police as they are not authorized to park on road. All
of these ultimately result in harassment to the drivers and
the passengers.

Transport authorities have tried to create designated pre-
paid auto stands at diﬀerent places for the convenience of
passengers. Here autos queue up for passengers and pay
some nominal fees to the stand operator and customers get
readily available autos at charges ﬁxed by the authorities
plus a small premium. While customers are happy with the
model as they do not need to negotiate and the autos are
registered which adds to the safety factor, the auto-drivers
complain of long waiting time and low fare charges for cer-
tain locations. For busy places like airports and railway
station, auto-drivers are allowed to drop a passenger but ei-
ther have to wait in a long queue to get next passenger or
have to travel back to city empty.

These ineﬃciencies result from the fact that no central
entity exists that can coordinate the operations of the autos
much in the same way a taxi company operates by taking
in customer requests and dispatching orders from a central
location. The diﬀerence between the two lies in the owner-
ship of the vehicles. In the former, taxi vehicles belonging
to a single company or partners lie under single administra-
tive control whereas in the latter case each auto-rickshaw
is autonomous. It becomes apparent that organizing these
auto operations while retaining the autonomy of these auto-
rickshaws would provide signiﬁcant beneﬁts to both com-
muters are well auto-drivers and owners.

3. ORGANIZATION THROUGH COMMU-

NITIES

Driven by the inputs from the surveys, we propose overlay-
ing or imposing an organization over the unorganized sec-
tors as a viable solution. Hopefully this can help in alle-
viating some of the ineﬃciencies and problems existing in
current operational models. Speciﬁcally, we study the ser-
vice providers in the two segments introduced above and
explore whether they are willing to be organized with the
goal of increasing productivity and reducing ineﬃciencies.
Further we study the customer’s view to explore the need
and willingness from their perspective.
3.1 Mobile Micro-businesses

aim of this survey was the following:

We surveyed 26 skilled labourers in the Delhi region. The
• to discuss with them and ﬁnd out if organising them
• to verify if their needs can be served by forming an

can help their business, and,

organization for this section of the society.

We provided the survey subjects with an option of using
a hypothetical organized community service through which
subjects can get information about micro-business and can
make appointments.

3.1.1 Survey Results – Mobile Micro-businessmen

Of the 26 people, 12 owned a mobile phone. Most of them
were plumbers, electricians, painters, carpenters. Their cur-
rent operating style involves ﬂocking around near a hard-
ware market. None of them advertise themselves through
local yellow pages or through newspapers. They seem to
have an impression that they are not a big company who
can advertise.

938Table 5: Mobile workforce survey responses.

Table 6: Mobile workforce customer responses.

Question

Need an organization?

Ready to pay commission?

Need service guarantee?

Use SMS?

Yes No
82% 18%
82% 18%
92%
8%
100% 0%

Question

Need organization?

Community-based referrals?

Ready to pay commission

Use SMS

Yes No
85% 15%
92% 8%
53% 47%
4% 96%

85% of the interviewed people felt that they need to orga-
nize their schedules. An overwhelming 92% said that they
would want to register to a virtual community if it can help
them in providing more work. 47% of them were not will-
ing to pay a commission to this community. They wanted
that the community should charge commission from the cus-
tomers and not from them. However, the remaining 53%
were ﬁne with a commission of about 5% to 10%. None of
them had problems with the fact that the community may
call them back if the work is not good. However, some men-
tioned that the support will be provided only if it happens
within a couple of weeks from completing the task. Almost
all preferred to talk to the customer before signing up for
work assignment on the virtual community.

Of the 12 people who had mobile phones, only one person
was comfortable using SMS as a means of communication
with the virtual community. Rest preferred voice.
Key Insights: This survey clearly identiﬁes that this seg-
ment does not get enough work volumes – they are capa-
ble of handling more. It also establishes the need for hav-
ing a virtual community for these labourers. Moreover, this
community should levy a very low commission (if any) from
micro-businessmen and should be available over a voice in-
teraction.

3.1.2 Survey Results – Micro-business Customers

We interviewed 30 people who frequently use services from
the micro-businesses such as plumbers and carpenters. About
75% of subjects mention that they do not get a plumber /
electrician / carpenter when they need them. They are ei-
ther late or unavailable. Reliability and overcharging is an
issue with about 30% of the subjects. Perhaps owing to
these pain-points, 82% of the subjects are willing to use an
organization for their microbusiness needs. Of this, 68% (i.e.
82% of total surveyed) are willing to pay a nominal fees to
use such a service. 70% of the subjects would prefer to use
just Phone/SMS to contact such an organization, while the
remaining are comfortable with the Web too. 92% of the
subjects desire a service guarantee from the organization.
70% of the subscribers are willing to wait for a couple of
hours before they get a conﬁrmation for the service. For
special long-term contractual services such as a maid or a
driver, 15% subjects are willing to wait for a couple of days
before being conﬁrmed. A sample of the questions asked to
these subjects are presented below:

you need them ?

• Do you get Plumbers/Electricians/Carpenters when
• Would you rather deal with an organization for your
• Are you willing to pay a fee for this service ?
• How would you prefer to contact the organization ?

needs ?

(web, phone, SMS) ?

Key Insights: It is clear that the customers who need the
services of such mobile micro-businesses are willing to use
and pay for the services provided by an organization. Since

this segment of people are literate enough, they are ﬁne with
either voice or SMS as a mode of interaction.
3.2 Auto-scheduling

We created a service description, called Dial-an-Auto to
explain the scope and limitation of the environment that the
auto-drivers would be in with an overlaid organization. We
presented Dial-an-Auto as an organization that would pro-
vide an eﬀective matchmaking of needy customers to autos
nearby. This is not possible today due to lack of a common
communication channel.

3.2.1 Survey Results – Auto Drivers

We surveyed 32 auto drivers in New Delhi with the aim
of determining whether they would be willing to sign up for
Dial-an-Auto.

We asked the following questions:
• Would you be willing to use Dial-an-Auto service? This
would mean registering with the service provider, call-
ing in to update the current location whenever avail-
able for picking a customer or to ﬁnd out if there was
customer closer to them looking for an auto.

• Would you be willing to travel with charges ﬁxed by

the transport department while using this service?
• Would you be willing to accept advance bookings?
• How far would you be willing to travel to fetch a wait-

ing passenger without charging anything extra?

Several drivers outrightly rejected the proposition — claim-
ing it to be impossible. Further probing revealed couple of
interesting insights. First, they felt that they would get cus-
tomer requests from far oﬀ places and it would be a waste
of time and money to pick them. We assured them that
location based matching would solve this problem. Second,
local rules enforce these auto-drivers to not refuse a pas-
senger who has hailed them on the street. This was put in
practice by the authorities to prevent errant drivers to refuse
passengers that wanted to go to less proﬁtable places or who
wanted to pay as per charges ﬁxed by the government. The
drivers asked how they could refuse someone on the street if
they have already been booked and are on their way to pick
the passenger. We took this as an input to next reﬁnement
of sour design.

However, on presenting clariﬁcation most of them could
immediately sense the beneﬁts of such a service and many
could relate it to the operation of radio taxis that are con-
trolled from a central location.

We summarise some of the key responses. 100% of the sur-
veyed auto-drivers wanted to use Dial-an-Auto. 53% of them
were willing to charge as per the rates ﬁxed by transport
authority while the remaining 47% expressed their desire to
negotiate with the customer. 100% of the people surveyed
were keen on accepting advance bookings only in the morn-
ings, since they cannot guarantee their location during day

939Table 7: Summary of responses from auto drivers.

Questions

Want Dial-an-Auto?

Want to negotiate charges?

Advance Bookings?

Pick up to 1km without extra charges?

Yes No
100% 0%
47% 53%
100% 0%
25% 75%

time. About 9.3% of auto-drivers surveyed were willing to
go upto 0.5 km to fetch a customer without charging extra
while 15.6% were willing to go upto 1 km without any ex-
tra charges. Remaining 75% were willing to go upto 5 km
to pick up a customer as long the metering starts from the
location where the call was received.

A few auto-drivers expressed concerns if they will have
to pay commission for using this service. They were happy
to know that no such charge will be levied to them. They
were also concerned if this service would turn out similar
to a pre-paid auto-stand described earlier. Long waiting
times and trips to areas with low likelihood of returning
customers make these stands not very popular among auto-
drivers. Another reason is that they lose their autonomy in
ﬁxing up the charges. Even in the context of Dial-an-Auto,
the drivers wanted to have the option to accept/reject a
passenger, and the freedom to negotiate the price directly
with the passenger.
Key Insights: This survey helped us realise that the solu-
tion should be such that it retains the autonomy of individual
auto drivers. It should also cater to passengers who do not
have a mobile phone. The solution should be able to provide
a mechanism for booked autos to refuse passengers. Since
many drivers are not willing to drive with government ap-
proved rates, the solution should provide a mechanism for
allowing negotiations.

3.2.2 Survey Results – Auto Passengers

We interviewed 30 subjects who live in diﬀerent regions in
Delhi to ﬁnd about their pain points with respect to getting
an auto-rickshaw. About 80% of the subjects were willing
to make a call to a Dial-an-Auto service to get an auto.
Most subjects are willing to pay an additional 10% to use
this service. 68% of the subjects are willing to do an advance
booking for an auto. One subject had tried advance booking
over phone with a know driver and he was satisﬁed with this
mode of engaging an auto.

Table 8: Responses from auto passengers.

Questions

Will you call Dial-An-Auto?

Pay extra?

Advance Bookings?

Yes No
80% 20%
92% 8%
68% 32%

Overall, most subjects showed their willingness to use the
Dial-an-Auto service and they were positive that such a ser-
vice can be helpful for commuters.

4. THE TECHNOLOGY

The insights gathered through the interview process (as
described in the previous section) establish a need for or-
ganizing the micro-business market through a community
based system. As a solution, we propose the VoiAvatar sys-
tem, based on VoiGen [9], that helps these labourers to cre-
ate their avatars on the telephony network. The generated

system is deployed in the network and accessible through a
phone number that is assigned to it. For the auto-drivers, we
have prototyped an auto-scheduling service called Dial-An-
Auto. Both the applications are accessible by voice over the
telephony channel. Thus these two applications provide a
low-cost and low-literacy-requirement solutions to organize
the micro-business. Next we describe the details of the two
services.
4.1 Mobile Micro-business

The VoiAvatar system can be used by micro-businessmen
to create their own virtual avatars by making a phone call.
The online avatars of these micro-businessmen can be ac-
cessed to get information about them and their work. Such
information could include area of operation of the micro-
businessman, service charges and work hours. Once many
people create their avatars, this can evolve to a virtual on-
line community of micro-businessmen and customers, where
both can upload and access the information through a phone
call. The customers could call in to community portal to
specify their requirements and the portal would then search
for relevant micro-businessman registered with it. Alterna-
tively, the customer could browse through avatars of various
micro-businessmen to select one for his job. The avatar also
acts a proxy for the micro-businessman as the customer can
interact with it if the micro-businessman himself is busy
with a job or is unable to accept a phone call. This ensures
that the user does not lose customers due to unavailability
through the phone.

The VoiAvatar system has been developed as a spoken
language interaction system. A pre-deﬁned template is pro-
vided for a particular type of business. The sample template
shown in Figure 2 is for skilled laborers such as a plumber
or carpenter.
In this template for example, some of the
information asked includes home location, working hours,
service charge information and recommendations for this la-
borer. The laborer can also conﬁgure his avatar so that it
can take appointments from his customers.

The VoiAvatar system also allows multiple avatars to
be linked together through a Hyperspeech Transfer Proto-
col (HSTP) that we have deﬁned and prototyped [7]. This
hyperlinking in voice enables creation of a networked ecosys-
tem [10] of such avatars. Traversal of these links through a
phone, involves transferring the phone call from one avatar
to another along with the context of the application across
the two avatars. Such a mechanism can enable customers to
make online payments to a micro-business safely through a
phone call. The businessman can later modify his avatar by
calling the VoiAvatar system.

Calendaring

Service

Yellow 
Pages

VoiAvatar

Welcome
Message

Service
Charges

Appointments

References

Figure 2: Creating the Voice Avatar

The system is not heavily dependent on the speech recog-
nition accuracy since very few utterances of the end-user

940Voice
Browser

Spoken
Dialog
System

Location 
Inferencing 

Module

Matchmaking

Engine

Figure 3: Dial-An-Auto System

Ontology

Get Booking 

Mode

Y

Advance
Booking?

Record Date 

and Time

Database

Passenger

Record Exact

Address

N

Get User 
Location 

are converted to text, most is recorded. Since the gener-
ated avatar of the micro-businessman is in his own voice,
customers can easily relate the avatar to the actual person.
This service brings some organization into daily opera-
tions of these micro-businessmen. They become empowered
with a means to advertise themselves, describe their service
and corresponding charges and oﬀer appointments. Later
on, appropriate information logging at the server could help
produce usage data and reports for a micro-business. Such
data collection and analysis is missing for this user segment.
4.2 Dial-An-Auto

In order to organize the auto-driver operations, we pro-
pose a spoken dialog matchmaking system that will enable
auto-drivers to ﬁnd the closest passenger and vice versa at
any time. The fare prices and decision to accept a pas-
senger can still rest with the auto driver thus retaining the
autonomy of the drivers. In this section we will describe the
Dial-An-Auto system.

Figure 3 shows the architecture of the Dial-An-Auto. The
system is accessed through the telecom network by making a
phone call. The call is connected to the spoken dialog system
via a Voice Browser. The spoken dialog system contains two
call ﬂows - one each for passenger and auto driver, and use a
location inferencing module and a matchmaking module to
serve incoming requests. We next describe these modules.

4.2.1 Location Inferencing Module

Well structured network of streets and highways in devel-
oped countries make it very easy to specify a precise location
using location positioning systems. Applications like Google
maps and Yahoo maps can be used in location based services
to give directions or to guide someone to a particular loca-
tion. The same is not true for countries like India where
the roadways are highly unstructured, milestones or street
identiﬁcations are missing at cross roads and there are mul-
tiple names for the same location. Locations are speciﬁed
with the help of landmarks such as school, hospitals, mar-
ket places as opposed to just the names of streets. For the
Dial-An-Auto system, we developed the prototype of a voice
based location inferencing system which makes use of an on-
tological model to narrow down to the exact location of the
user. The details of the ontological model used is out of the
scope of this paper.

4.2.2 Spoken Dialog System

This module presents a diﬀerent call ﬂow for passengers
and auto-drivers. It guides the user by registering his call-
information and request and transfers control to other mod-
ules to process the request. Figures 4 and 5 show separate
call-ﬂows that are designed for the Auto-driver and the pas-
senger which can be accessed on diﬀerent telephone lines.

Passenger Call Flow: Passengers can call the system to
make two types of bookings: current or in advance. In case
of current booking, the control is the transferred to the lo-

Get Destination

Details 

Get Expected

Charges

Register
Request

Figure 4: Passenger Call Flow

cation inferencing module which deduces the user’s location
by asking a series of questions. The location is deduced to
the granularity level of a small area in the city. The exact
location of the passenger is recorded later which is played
to the auto-driver. The destination details are obtained in
a similar fashion. Finally, the passenger is asked for an es-
timate of the fare he is willing to pay for the destination
speciﬁed. This question is optional and can be removed for
places where ﬁxed fares are applicable in practice.

In case of an advance booking, the user is also asked to
record the date and time as to when he will be needing the
service.

Auto-Driver

Get ID

Matchmaking

Y

New

Member?

N

Update Status 

(Location, 
Availability)

Register

Play

location

Y

N

Match
Exists ?

Thank You 
and Wait

Figure 5: Auto Driver Call Flow

Auto-Driver Call Flow: When an auto-driver calls the
system for the ﬁrst time, he is asked to register his personal
information: Working hours, home location, phone number
etc. Some of this information is later used by the matchmak-
ing engine to determine the best match for the auto-driver.
For example, it takes into account whether the auto driver
prefers passengers heading towards his home at the end of
the day or how far he is willing to go to pick a passenger
free of charge. Once the registration is complete, a 4-digit
PIN is given to the auto-driver which serves as his identiﬁ-
cation. The system then asks the auto driver for his current
location. The matchmaking algorithm determines the best
match among all the registered passengers. In case a match
exists, the passenger details along with the exact recorded
location is played out to the driver. Otherwise the driver is
asked to call back again after sometime. If the auto-driver
has a cell phone, the system calls the auto driver as soon as
a passenger becomes available.

We have implemented a matchmaking engine [8] that not
only does traditional parametric matchmaking but also takes

941into account real time updates such as location information
of the auto-driver. The parametric matching is done on
the preferences of the auto-driver speciﬁed at the time of
registration.
4.3 User Feedback

Since the VoiAvatar system is intended to be used by
micro-businessmen, we invited some plumbers, electricians,
carpenters etc (subscribers) to use VoiAvatar. They cre-
ated their own avatars. Secondly, we invited people who
are typical users of such services and asked them to call
the avatars that were generated by the subscribers. Thus
we evaluated the entire process of generation of avatars (by
subscribers) and then the use of these avatars (by users). In
this section, we elaborate on the proﬁle of the subjects who
took part in the evaluations. Later we describe the evalua-
tion process and conclude by providing the evaluation results
and insights gained from user study.

4.3.1 Proﬁle of Survey Subjects

The system was evaluated on two processes. The ﬁrst pro-
cess focused on the usability aspects of the VoiAvatar sys-
tem. The target population chosen for this task are the peo-
ple who work as freelancers and have a speciﬁc region of op-
eration (a few kilometers). They are typically skilled labor-
ers (such as electricians, plumbers, carpenters) and charge
on the basis of the amount of work that is required of them.
We surveyed 12 subjects of which 3 were carpenters, 5 were
plumbers, 3 were electricians and one was a drilling person.
The second process involves use of the avatars that are
generated in the ﬁrst process. These set of people, who we
foresee would use these avatars, are from well-to-do families
who need services to ﬁx water taps, electricity problems,
among other work items. This section of the population is
relatively more exposed to IT services. Some of them have
used interactive voice response systems and know about or
use the Internet.

4.3.2 Survey Process

For the ﬁrst process, we briefed the subscribers for about
10 minutes to motivate them of the use and advantages of
avatars in their daily lives. Then we briefed them with the
usage of the VoiAvatar system for about 5 minutes. Then
we asked subjects to make a telephone call to VoiAvatar.
Subjects were asked to interact with VoiAvatar and re-
spond to the commands and provide the relevant answers.
Finally, we asked the subjects a set of questions to get an
understanding of the usability of VoiAvatar and of the po-
tential of avatars for the masses. The questions asked were
the following:

• Have you ever used an automated voice driven system?
• Was this method of generating the avatar easy to use?
• Are you interested in having your own avatar?
• Do you think your business will improve with the use

of your avatar?

In addition, the following observations were made during
their use of VoiAvatar:

• Time required to describe the concept of avatar.
• Time spend by the subscriber in creating the avatar

using VoiAvatar.

For the second process, we explained the concept of pro-

viding services through telephony infrastructure to the prospec-
tive users of avatars. Then we asked them to make a phone
call to the avatars that were generated as part of the ﬁrst
process. We asked the following questions to them after the
phone call:

• Was this voice based system (i.e. avatar) informative?
• Do you normally have problems in getting touch with

the plumber, electricians or such service providers?

 700

 600

 500

 400

 300

 200

 100

)
s
d
n
o
c
e
s
 
n
i
(
 
e
m
T

i

 1

 2

 3

"voigen_completion"
"subject_introduction"

 6

 7

 5

 4
 9
Subscriber subjects

 8

 10

 11

 12

Figure 6: Time taken by each subscribers to under-
stand the avatar concept and to build their avatars.

4.3.3 Survey Results

Out of the 12 subjects that were used to generate their
avatars, 10 were able to successfully create the avatars. Fig-
ure 6 shows the time that was spent to build the avatars
for the 12 subjects. Subject 1 and 7 were not able to create
their avatars. As seen, most subjects were able to generate
their own avatars within 4 minutes. A 4 minute phone call
in India costs less than 5 rupees (10 cents). This is despite
the fact that none of these subjects knew or had used a
voice based conversational system before. Surprisingly most
of them were comfortable with using the VoiAvatar sys-
tem. More importantly, all of them were able to identify the
potential that having a avatar can have in increasing their
business. However each such phone call had to be preceded
by an introduction to the concept which took about 5 min-
utes for each subject, as is seen in Figure 6. All showed
tremendous interest in the concept of avatars and the fact
that their work can be advertised without them actually re-
quiring to purchase any additional equipment.

About the usability of VoiAvatar, 2 subjects felt that the
system was not designed properly. They highlighted that it
asks diﬃcult questions rather than just asking for simple
things such as name,occupation or area-of-work.

We also performed usability surveys on 12 subjects who
were asked to make a call to the avatar that were generated
by one of the carpenter. We asked them if the information
provided on the avatar was useful to them. While most peo-
ple found the information to be useful, 3 subjects mentioned
that such a avatar will only be useful if they are able to make
an appointment with the system. We also asked the subjects
if it was an advantage to have the entire avatar in the voice
of the actual carpenter, rather than it being a system voice.
To our surprise, 66% of the subjects felt that they would
prefer to hear to a standard voice that is clear and does not
have a heavy accent. They mentioned that they were not

942able to understand the voice of the carpenter in some of the
prompts. However the remaining 33% were impressed with
the fact that they could hear the carpenter’s voice and men-
tioned that the voice would help them judge the carpenter.
All the subjects used for this usability test were educated
IT professionals. They were from diﬀerent regions of India
and not all of them had Hindi as their ﬁrst language.
Summary: Overall, the concept of providing services over
telephony infrastructure was found to be very important to
the subscribers and they realized its potential. The concept
of avatar was also found to be very easy to learn and use.
Based on this survey study, we realize that since the access
to avatars is through a telephone, it has a wider reach. Sec-
ondly, since voice interface is used to access the services, the
learning required to use such services deployed on the tele-
phony infrastructure is minimal. This is critical since our
target population is not expected to be educated enough to
learn the complex and non-natural interfaces such as key-
boards. Finally, the model of avatars is such that it has
minimal cost implications to the subscribers and users. The
system evaluation through these user studies act as a proof
point to the potential of VoiAvatar in developing countries.

5. DISCUSSION

The approach proposed in this paper has been demon-
strated to be applicable in two sectors. However, the ap-
proach is a generic one and is equally applicable in other
sectors as well. Retail industry is one such sector where the
problems faced by small and micro-retailers due to lack of
organization has been recognized.

The Indian middle class represents a huge burgeoning
market. This realization has led various retail giants such
as WalMart [4] to enter Indian market. Several new players
such as Subhiksha [2], FoodMart as well as local companies
such as [1] have also ventured out into this space result-
ing into mushrooming of various shopping malls and retail
stores across the country. This trend presents a challenge
to survival of a huge number of small retailers that form an
essential part of the country’s economy.

It has been argued that the small retailers oﬀer personal-
ized service to their customers including free home delivery,
attending to them at odd hours, remembering their pref-
erences etc. and therefore they cater to a diﬀerent segment
than shopping malls [17]. Nonetheless, surveys indicate that
such mom and pop grocery stores and retail shops are being
hit hard since they are unable to match the reduced prices
that big stores manage by ordering in bulk, sourcing directly
from the producers and optimizing their supply chain.

Information Technology can again play a key role here
in enabling these small retailers to organize themselves into
virtual communities or cooperatives. This would give them
bargaining power with suppliers, help them source products
directly from producers and amortize transportation, ware-
house and other cost across all members.

We believe that organizing the unorganized as an approach
enabled through virtual online communities has the poten-
tial to impact several sectors.

city police and the transport authority, called Easy Auto4.
The service has a call-centre based model. Customers must
register with Easy Auto to receive door-to-door service.
Non-registered customers can avail the service only at Easy
Auto stands. The autos can be booked through the web,
an Interactive Voice Response (IVR) system or by sending
an SMS. Locations are speciﬁed using location codes that
are provided in the passenger registration kit. Auto drivers
need to register. However, they do not have the ﬂexibility to
choose their passengers. The fares are ﬁxed by the transport
authority. The control is more centralized and this model
works like the regular cab service model. Comparatively,
Dial-an-Auto strives to preserve the autonomy of the auto
drivers while at the same time provides similar beneﬁts to
the passengers. The automatic matchmaking will also elim-
inate the call-center costs which account for a large part of
the operational costs in Easy Auto. The Easy Auto is still
in its initial phase of launching and not many auto drivers
have registered for this scheme yet. One of the incentives for
auto drivers to enroll is that they get insurance protection
for their families.

In the micro business area there have been eﬀorts to enable
the organization of the micro businessmen to reach a larger
clientele using web based solutions. The idea is to create
virtual market places where micro businesses can directly
sell their products. PEOPLink5 allows artisans in develop-
ing countries to sell their products online by using a simple
catalog generator software. Local catalogs are aggregated
into online market places. The customers can order prod-
ucts through the web and the payments are made directly
to the artisan. B2BPrice.com allows farmers in Philippines
to trade their goods online.

Dilli Haat6 is a central market place in Delhi, where arti-
sans from all over the country are invited to exhibit and sell
their products. It is a brick and mortar eﬀort to organize the
people in this segment. It is a government driven initiative
to enable artisans from various parts of the country to reach
out to a larger market. The market place simply provides
a common venue for the artists and customers to interact.
Another common model followed in India is where fruit and
vegetable vendors gather at a common market place to sell
their products. This is an example of a loose, informal or-
ganization of micro businesses where they still function like
autonomous entities.

A recent eﬀort is babajob.com, a social networking website
for ﬁnding jobs with a diﬀerence. It enables people who have
access to web (called mentors) to create and maintain online
proﬁles of under-privileged people essentially incorporating
them into an online social network. Since this is a new
site, at the time of this writing, it is not known whether
this service has been accepted by a lot of people or not.
We believe that ﬁnding mentors will be a key challenge,
as will be the updating of the social network links as time
progresses. The use of voice-driven interfaces for our target
population has also been suggested [18] and experimented
with [11, 12].

Authors in [13] performed a user study to evaluate the
acceptance of voice-driven application in rural India based
on a sample speech-driven agriculture query system. The

6. RELATED WORK

An attempt has been made to make the process of hiring
an auto simpler by an initiative launched in Bangalore by the

4http://www.easyauto.in
5http://www.peoplink.org
6http://www.delhitourism.com/dttdc/dilli-haat.html

943study reveals that even illiterate users were able to navigate
through the dialog system, though the number of errors for
such users was higher than those with literate people.

VoiceGuide7 is a system that allows fast and easy creation
of IVRs. It oﬀers an easy to use application development
visual editing tool for IVR creation. While this may be
convenient for application programmers, our target segment
will be unable to use it. Our VoiGen system [9] allows
anyone to simply make a call to create their VoiAvatar,
making the process all the more easier.

7. CONCLUSION

In this paper, we reported the insights gained from a sur-
vey of mobile micro-business service providers (and their
consumers). These represent some of the 700 million unor-
ganised workforce in India. Based on the collective pain-
points of this community, we proposed the use of virtual
online communities as a mechanism for organizing this work-
force and hence improve their work eﬃciency and produc-
tivity. The surveys with the service providers and customers
present the need for such a virtual community for the two
verticals that we used for this purpose. Thus we identiﬁed
the problems, proposed a solution and validated the applica-
bility of solution while constantly engaging the end-users.

A key consideration as also observed from the surveys is
that this approach has to be applied while retaining the
autonomy of individual participants. Such eﬀorts involv-
ing government results in participants losing their autonomy
such as in Pre-paid taxi/auto stands and more recently in
the Easy Auto service being piloted. Without the use of
technology, similar practices have been successful in diﬀer-
ent forms in developing countries where people try to orga-
nize themselves to gain some business advantage. Examples
include group organized auto-stands, semi-formal fruit and
vegetable markets, etc. However, our belief is that technol-
ogy can help scale such self/group-organization eﬀorts and
let private entities participate in enabling multiple such so-
lutions under a sustainable business model.

In the future, we intend to pilot some of these services and
explore the applicability of this approach in other vertical
sectors as well.

8. ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

The authors would like to thank Sameer Agarwal, IIT
Guwahati and Neeraj Chaudhary, IIT Delhi for their help
in implementation of Dial-an-Auto VoiceSite.

9. REFERENCES
[1] Reliance Industries Limited.

http://www.ril.com/html/business/business retail.html.

[2] Success Story of Subhiksha, India’s largest retail chain.
http://www.rediﬀ.com/money/2007/feb/05bspec.htm.

[3] The Use of ICTs by Small and Informal Businesses.

http://research.microsoft.com/ jdonner/
Papers/donner micros slides.pdf.

[4] Walmart.com - Always Low Prices.

http://www.walmart.com.

[5] United Nations Department of Economic and Social
Aﬀairs, Population Division. Urban and Rural Areas

7http://www.voiceguide.com

2001. http://www.un.org/esa/population/
publications/wup2001/2001urban rural.pdf, 2003.

[6] R. Abraham. Mobile Phones and Economic

Development: Evidence from the Fishing Industry in
India. In IEEE/ACM International Conference on
Information and Communication Technologies and
Development (ICTD), Berkeley, USA, May 2006.

[7] S. Agarwal, D. Chakraborty, A. Kumar, A. A.
Nanavati, and N. Rajput. HSTP: Hyperspeech
Transfer Protocol. In ACM Hypertext 2007, UK,
September 2007.

[8] D. Chakraborty, K. Dasgupta, S. Mittal, A. Misra,

C. Oberle, A. Gupta, and E. Newmark. Businessﬁnder:
Harnessing presence to enable live yellow pages for
small, medium and micro mobile businesses. In IEEE
Communications, Issue on Networking Technologies in
Emerging Economies. January 2007.

[9] A. Kumar, N. Rajput, D. Chakraborty, S. Agarwal,

and A. A. Nanavati. Voiserv: Creation and delivery of
converged services through voice for emerging
economies. In WoWMoM’07 Proceedings of the 2007
International Symposium on a World of Wireless,
Mobile and Multimedia Networks, Finland, June 2007.

[10] A. Kumar, N. Rajput, D. Chakraborty, S. Agarwal,

and A. A. Nanavati. WWTW: A World Wide Telecom
Web for Developing Regions. In ACM SIGCOMM
Workshop on Networked Systems For Developing
Regions, Aug 2007.

[11] I. Medhi, A. Sagar, and K. Toyama. Text-Free User
Interfaces for Illiterate and Semi-Literate Users. In
IEEE/ACM International Conference on Information
and Communication Technologies and Development
(ICTD), Berkeley, USA, May 2006.

[12] T. S. Parikh and E. D. Lazowska. Designing an
Architecture for Delivering Mobile Information
Services to the Rural Developing World. In Proc. Intl.
Conf. on World Wide Web (WWW), May 2006.
[13] M. Plauche and M. Prabaker. Tamil Market: A

Spoken Dialog System for Rural India. In Working
Papers in Computer-Human Interfaces (CHI), 2006.

[14] C. K. Prahlad. The Fortune at the Bottom of the

Pyramid: Eradicating Poverty Through Proﬁts . 2004.
[15] K. Ramamritham, A. Bahuman, C. B. S. Duttagupta,

and S. Balasundaram. Innovative ICT Tools for
Information Provision in Agricultural Extension. In
IEEE/ACM International Conference on Information
and Communication Technologies and Development
(ICTD), Dec 2006.

[16] S. Sakthivel and P. Joddar. Unorganised Sector

Workforce in India - Trends, Patterns and Social
Security Coverage. Economic and Political Weekly,
2006.

[17] M. Seth. Kirana vs super-market. Business World,

http://www.businessworldindia.com/july0504/
casestudy01.asp, Jul 2004.

[18] J. Sherwani. Are Spoken Dialog Systems Viable for

Under-served Semi-literate Populations? PhD Thesis
Proposal, Carnegie Mellon University, http://
www.cs.cmu.edu/ jsherwan/JS-proposal.pdf, 2005.

944