International Workshop on Question Answering  

on the Web (QAWeb2008)  

Qing Li 

Dept of Computer Science  
City University of Hong Kong 

Xuedong Huang 
Microsoft Corporation 
One Microsoft Way 

+1-425-706-2966 

83 Tat Chee Ave. KLN, Hong Kong 

Redmond WA, 98052-6399, USA 

+852-2788-9695 

Liu Wenyin 

Dept of Computer Science  
City University of Hong Kong 

83 Tat Chee Ave. KLN, Hong Kong 

+852-2784-4730 

csliuwy@cityu.edu.hk

itqli@cityu.edu.hk 

xdh@microsoft.com 

ABSTRACT 
A half-day single track workshop is designed to gather academic 
researchers  and  industrial  practitioners  at  to  share  ideas  and 
knowledge  of  know-how,  and  to  discuss  all  relevant  issues 
including  the  business  models,  enabling  technologies,  and  killer 
applications, of Web-based question answering (QA), especially, 
the user-interactive QA services and applications. The workshop 
program  consists  of  two  sessions,  one  for  academic  papers,  and 
the other for industrial practice papers. Each session consists of a 
leading talk, followed by three short presentations. Sufficient time 
is allocated for brainstorming discussions in each session. 

Categories and Subject Descriptors 
H.3.3 [Information Storage and Retrieval]: Information Search 
and Retrieval. 
General  Terms:  Algorithms,  Design,  Experimentation, 
Human Factors, Languages, Performance, Standardization. 
Keywords: Question Answering. 

1.  OBJECTIVES 
Question answering (QA) is an emerging new information service 
following the popularization of search engines. QA can be more 
preferable since a direct and exact answer is expected instead of a 
long list of ranked, possibly relevant but usually long documents, 
which can be automatically returned by a search engine but still 
require  the  user’s  manual  and  sometimes  very  tedious  filtration. 
After  a  decade  of  constant  research  efforts,  we  are  seeing  that 
automatic question answering (AutoQA) has grown up into a new 
and  hot  sub-area  of  information  retrieval.  However,  user-
interactive  question  answering  (InterQA)  which  just  emerged  a 
couple of years ago has already witnessed its milestone of being 
mature and successful since 2007. For example, Yahoo! Answers 
[1]  was  ranked  as  the  best  Web  2.0  service  in  2007.  We  are 
anticipating  a  new  wave  of  hot  Web  information  services  based 
on InterQA since it is a natural complement to search engines, or 
alternatively, can be considered as manual search engines.    
Although  AutoQA  has  been  discussed  by  TREC,  CLEF,  SIGIR 
and NTCIR as a sub-domain for many years, we’d like to dedicate 
a  single  mind  event  to  discuss  all  issues  of  QA.  Therefore,  we 
propose to start QAWeb2008 as the beginning of a new series of 
workshops, which will gather academic researchers and industrial 
 
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s). 
WWW 2008,  April 21–25, 2008, Beijing, China. 
ACM 978-1-60558-085-2/08/04. 

 

practitioners  at  all  level  of  experience  to  share  ideas  and 
knowledge  of  know-how,  and  to  discuss  all  relevant  issues 
including  the  business  models,  enabling  technologies,  and  killer 
applications, of QA, especially InterQA.  
We  expect  all  participants  to  actively  participate  in  the  panel 
discussions  in  addition  to  the  academic  and  practice  paper 
presentations. A summary of the  brainstorming  panel  discussion 
at  each  session  will  be  published  on  the  workshop  website  [2], 
together  with  all  the  presented  papers.  We  wish  the  summaries 
can inspire more research output and fruitful applications. 

2.  THEMES AND TOPICS 
All  topics  related  to  question  answering  (QA),  especially,  user-
interactive  QA,  are  of  interest  for  the  Workshop.  These  topics 
include but are not limited to: System Architecture, Algorithms, 
User Interfaces, Business Models, User Models and Personalized 
Recommendation,  Question  Categorization,  Answer  Clustering, 
Answer  Fusion,  Social  Networks,  Reputation  Models,  Text 
Similarity, Short Text Modeling, Patterns and Semantic Patterns,  
Performance Evaluation, and Applications.  
3.  PROGRAM 
The  program  consists  for  two  sessions,  one  for  academic  paper 
presentations  and  the  other  for  presentations  of  papers  with 
industrial  practices  and  experiences.  Each  session  consists  of  a 
lead  talk  (30  minutes)  followed  by  three  short  presentations.  In 
addition, a lead talk may use about 10-15 minutes to cover a brief 
survey  of  the  state  of  the  art  in  this  area,  including  brief 
introductions, summaries, or comments of the presentations in the 
same session. Each short presentation (10 minutes) should focus 
more on the method and result, and skip or just briefly mention 
the introduction/motivation. Following all the presentations in the 
same  session  will  be  a  small  panel  by  all  the  presenters  in  the 
session  for  a  brainstorming  discussion  (about  30  minutes), 
including answering questions from the audience.  A  coordinator 
and  a  scribe  will  be  appointed  for  each  session  to  facilitate  the 
discussion and record the major points, respectively. A summary 
of  the  discussion  for  each  session  will  be  published  on  the 
workshop  website  [2]  after  the  workshop.  We  hope  such  an 
arrangement  can  make  the  workshop  to  have  a  more  interactive 
atmosphere.  
4.  REFERENCES 
[1]  http://answers.yahoo.com/. 
[2]  http://www.buyans.com/qaweb2008/.

1275WWW 2008 / Workshop Summary April 21-25, 2008 · Beijing, China