Feature Weighting in Content Based Recommendation

System Using Social Network Analysis

Souvik Debnath

Indian Institute of Technology

Kharagpur, India - 721302
cs_souvik@yahoo.co.in

Niloy Ganguly

Indian Institute of Technology

Kharagpur, India - 721302

niloy@cse.iitkgp.ernet.in

Pabitra Mitra

Indian Institute of Technology

Kharagpur, India - 721302

pabitra@cse.iitkgp.ernet.in

ABSTRACT
We propose a hybridization of collaborative ﬁltering and
content based recommendation system. Attributes used for
content based recommendations are assigned weights de-
pending on their importance to users. The weight values
are estimated from a set of linear regression equations ob-
tained from a social network graph which captures human
judgment about similarity of items.

Categories and Subject Descriptors
H.3.3 [Information Storage and Retrieval]: Information
Search and Retrieval—information ﬁltering

General Terms
Algorithms, Design, Experimentation

Keywords
Recommender System, Social Network, Feature Similarity

1.

INTRODUCTION

Recommendation systems produce a ranked list of items
on which a user might be interested, in the context of her
current choice of an item. Recommendation systems are
built for movies, books, communities, news, articles etc.
There are two main approaches to build a recommendation
system - collaborative ﬁltering and content based [3]. Col-
laborative ﬁltering computes similarity between two users
based on their rating proﬁle, and recommends items which
are highly rated by similar users. However, quality of collab-
orative ﬁltering suﬀers in case of sparse preference databases.
Content based system on the other hand does not use any
preference data and provides recommendation directly based
on similarity of items. Similarity is computed based on item
attributes using appropriate distance measures. We attempt
to hybridize collaborative ﬁltering and content based recom-
mendation for circumventing the diﬃculties of these indi-
vidual approaches. Item similarity measure used in content
based recommendation is learned from a collaborative social
network of users.

Some previous attempts at integrating collaborative ﬁl-
tering and content based approach include content boosted
collaborative ﬁltering [3], weighted, mixed, switching and

Copyright is held by the author/owner(s).
WWW 2008, April 21–25, 2008, Beijing, China.
ACM 978-1-60558-085-2/08/04.

feature combination of diﬀerent types of recommender sys-
tem [2]. But none of these talks about producing recom-
mendation to a user without getting her preferences. We
demonstrate the eﬀectiveness of the proposed system for rec-
ommending movies in Internet Movie Database (IMDB) [1].
From the results it is seen that our recommendation is quite
in agreement with IMDB recommendation.

2. FEATURE WEIGHTING IN CONTENT

BASED RECOMMENDATION

In content based recommendation every item is repre-
sented by a feature vector or an attribute proﬁle. The fea-
tures hold numeric or nominal values representing certain
aspects of the item like color, price etc. A variety of dis-
tance measures between the feature vectors may be used
to compute the similarity of two items. The similarity val-
ues are then used to obtain a ranked list of recommended
items. If one considers Euclidian or cosine similarity; implic-
itly equal importance is asserted on all features. However,
human judgment of similarity between two items often gives
diﬀerent weights to diﬀerent attributes. For example, while
choosing a camera, price of a camera may be more impor-
tant than the body color attribute. It may be stated that
users base their judgments on some latent criteria which is
a weighted linear combination of the diﬀerences in individ-
ual attribute. Accordingly, we deﬁne similarity S between
objects Oi and Oj as

S(Oi, Oj ) = ω1f (A1i, A1j) + ω2f (A2i, A2j )

+ ··· + ωnf (Ani, Anj)

(1)

where ωn is the weight given to the diﬀerence in value of at-
tribute An between objects Oi and Oj , the diﬀerence given
by f (Ani, Anj). The deﬁnition of f depends on the type of
attribute (numeric, nominal, boolean). We normalize f ’s to
have value in [0, 1]. In general the weights ω1, ω2,··· , ωn
are unknown. In the next section we describe a method of
determining these weights from a social collaborative net-
work.

We have used the above methodology for recommending
movie in IMDB database. A set of 13 features are con-
sidered. The features along with their type, domain and
distance measures are shown in Table 1. All these feature
values can be obtained from the IMDB database.

3. DETERMINING FEATURE WEIGHTS

We estimate the feature weights from a social network
graph of items. The underlying principle is to use exist-

1041WWW 2008 / Poster PaperApril 21-25, 2008 · Beijing, ChinaTable 1: Features Used in Movie Recommendation

Feature

Type

Domain

YYYY

Year
String Movie,TV etc.
Integer
Integer
String
String

Distance
Measure

300

(300−|Y1−Y2|)
T1 = T2?1 : 0
(10−|R1−R2|)
(Vmax−|V1−V2|)

10

Vmax

D1 = D2?1 : 0
W1 = W2?1 : 0

(0-10)
(≥ 5)
<Name>
<Name>
Drama etc.
College etc.
(<Name>)*
France etc.
English etc.
Color, B/W C1 = C2?1 : 0
C1 = C2?1 : 0
<Name>

|G1∩G2|
Gmax
|K1∩K2|
Kmax
|C1∩C2|
Cmax
|C1∩C2|
Cmax
|L1∩L2|
Lmax

Release
Type
Rating
Vote

Director
Writer
Genre

Keyword

Cast

Country
Language

Color

Company

(String)*
(String)*
(String)*
(String)*
(String)*

String
String

ing recommendation by users to construct a social network
graph with items as nodes. The graph represents human
judgment of similarity between items aggregated over a large
population of users. Optimal feature weights are considered
to be those which induce a similarity measure between items
best conforming to this social network graph.

We describe below a linear regression framework for de-
termining the optimal feature weights. Let the items un-
der consideration be denoted by O1, O2,··· , Ol, they cor-
responds to the vertices of our social network. The edge
weight between vertices Oi and Oj ,

E(Oi, Oj ) = # of users who are interested in both Oi, Oj .
E(Oi, Oj ), suitably normalized, may be considered as hu-
man judgment of similarity between Oi, Oj . Recall that
feature vector (content based) similarity between Oi, Oj has
been deﬁned as S(Oi, Oj ) in Eq. (1). Equating E(Oi, Oj )
with S(Oi, Oj ) leads to the following set of regression equa-
tions. ∀i,∀j = 1..l ∧ i (cid:5)= j,

ω0 + ω1f (A1i, A1j) + ω2f (A2i, A2j ) + · ·· +

ωnf (Ani, Anj ) = E(Oi, Oj )

(2)
The values of f (A1i, A1j), f (A2i, A2j ),··· , f (Ani, Anj) are
known from the data as are the values of E(Oi, Oj ). Solv-
ing the above regression equations provide estimates for the
values of ω1, ω2,··· , ωn. If there are l objects under consid-
eration, it is possible to have lC2 regression equations of the
above form. In the case of movie recommendation we have
considered movies as nodes in the social network. The edge
weight between two movies is the number of IMDB reviewers
who have reviewed both the movies.

4. EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS
The movie database used in our recommendation system
consists of 3 × 105 random movies downloaded from the
IMDB. The movies voted by less than 5 people or the movies
that have not been reviewed by a single person are ﬁltered
out. The data is then divided into three equal sets. Each
movie is described by 13 features (Table 1).
4.1 Stability of Feature Weights

Our recommendation system is based on the presumption
that feature weights are almost universal for diﬀerent sets of
users and movies. To test this presumption we consider dif-

Table 2: Feature Weight Values

Feature Mean Variance

Type
Writer
Genre

Keyword

Cast

Country
Language
Company

0.18
0.36
0.04
0.03
0.01
0.07
0.09
0.21

0.0023
0.0048
0.0001
0.0011
0.0003
0.0013
0.0004
0.0110

having at least one co-reviewer)

ferent sets of regression equations and solve for the weights.
We consider the following varieties of regression equations.
I. Equations using only edge weights ≥ 1 (i.e. movie pairs
II. Equations using only edge weights ≥ 2 . (Note that this
gives a graph which is a sub-graph of the previous graph.)
For the above graphs we construct a set of equations for
each of the three (partitioned) datasets having 105 movies.
Thus we get six sets of regression equations which we solve
using SPSS package. It is observed from the weight values
obtained from each of the above six sets of regression equa-
tions that some of the features have stable weight values,
while some features like Director, Rating, Vote, Year, Color
have unstable or negative weight. We remove the features
with unstable or negative weights from our regression equa-
tions and obtain the following set (Table 2) of stable weights
for eight features. Also note, out of the 8, 3 features namely
type, writer and company are particularly important. These
features along with their weights are used to obtain the rec-
ommendations.
4.2 Performance of the Recommender System
The proposed algorithm is compared with pure content
based method (considering equal weights for all features)
and IMDB recommendations. Performance is measured us-
ing the classical Recall measure, considering IMDB recom-
mendation as benchmark. The experiment has been done
on 10 diﬀerent movies. The proposed method achieves an
average recall of 0.29. Where as, the pure content based
method achieves a recall of 0.24 with IMDB. Thus the pro-
posed method agrees well with IMDB recommendation and
in this regard it outperforms pure content based method.
This demonstrates the eﬀectiveness of feature weighting.

5. CONCLUSION

A hybridization of content based and collaborative ﬁlter-
ing based recommendation is proposed. The weights of dif-
ferent attributes of an item are computed from the collabora-
tive social network using regression analysis. Further studies
on other weight estimation techniques like sparse regression
and isometric projection are being considered. Also more
rigorous performance evaluation based on human judgment
will be undertaken.

6. REFERENCES
[1] Internet Movie Database. http://www.imdb.com.
[2] Bruke, R. Hybrid recommender systems: survey and

experiments, User Modeling and User Adapted Interaction 12
(2002) 331-370.

[3] P. Melville, R.J. Mooney, R. Nagarajan Content-Boosted
Collaborative Filtering for Improved Recommendations,
Proceedings of the 18th National Conference on Aritiﬁcial
Intelligence (AAAI-2002), July 2002, Edmonton, Canada.

1042WWW 2008 / Poster PaperApril 21-25, 2008 · Beijing, China