Information Retrieval and Knowledge Discovery on the

Semantic Web of Traditional Chinese Medicine

Zhaohui Wu

College of Computer Science,

Zhejiang University,

Hangzhou, 310027, China

wzh@zju.edu.cn

Tong Yu

Huajun Chen

College of Computer Science,

College of Computer Science,

Zhejiang University,

Hangzhou, 310027, China

ytcs@zju.edu.cn

Zhejiang University,

Hangzhou, 310027, China
huajunsir@zju.edu.cn

ABSTRACT
We conduct the ﬁrst systematical adoption of the Semantic
Web solution in the integration, management, and utiliza-
tion of TCM information and knowledge resources. As the
results, the largest TCM Semantic Web ontology is engi-
neered as the uniform knowledge representation mechanism;
the ontology-based query and search engine is deployed,
mapping legacy and heterogeneous relational databases to
the Semantic Web layer for query and search across database
boundaries; the ﬁrst global herb-drug interaction network
is mapped through semantic integration, and the semantic
graph mining methodology is implemented for discovering
and interpreting interesting patterns from this network. The
platform and underlying methodology are proved eﬀective in
TCM-related drug usage, discovery, and safety analysis.

Categories and Subject Descriptors: H.4.m [Informa-
tion Systems]: Miscellaneous

General Terms: Algorithms, Experimentation, Human
Factors.

Keywords: Semantic Web, Information Retrieval, Knowl-
edge discovery.

1.

INTRODUCTION

The health care and life sciences communities have already
taken eﬀorts in the adoption of Semantic Web technologies,
including ontology engineering, semantic integration, infor-
mation retrieval, and knowledge discovery. However, these
successful projects focus exclusively on orthodoxy medicine,
and never on Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) domain.
Indeed, despite its wide adoption in Chinese communities,
TCM has rarely been the application domain of compu-
tational analysis in previous academic works. Our joint
group of Zhejiang University and China Academy of Chi-
nese Medical Sciences (CACMS) took the ﬁrst systematic
approach of Semantic Web for TCM Informatics, aiming
at the computerization and integration of TCM information
and knowledge to provide intelligent Web resources for clin-
ical decision-making, drug discovery, and education. The
resulting Semantic Web platform deployed in CACMS, in-
tegrates over 70 legacy relational databases into a coherent
semantic view, providing various Web-based knowledge and
information services for TCM practitioners from CACMS’s
17 aﬃliated institutions in China [1].

Copyright is held by the author/owner(s).
WWW 2008, April 21–25, 2008, Beijing, China.
ACM 978-1-60558-085-2/08/04.

A set of semantic-based tools and systems are developed
and deployed to facilitate TCM practitioners in achieving
collective intelligence. The Uniﬁed TCM Language System
(UTCMLS) is the largest TCM Semantic Web ontology in-
cluding 5,000 concepts and 20,000 instances, serving as a
common knowledge representation scheme to improve the
quality of semantic search and query, and to infer seman-
tic suggestions such as synonyms and associated concepts.
We have also deployed at CACMS the ontology-based query
and search engine (Figure 1), which maps legacy relational
databases to the Semantic Web layer for query and search
across database boundaries. A new methodology named se-
mantic graph mining is proposed, which uses the semantic
graph model to integrate graph mining and ontology reason-
ing for better analyzing biomedical complex networks. The
methodology is implemented in the Spora system (Figure
2), which creates knowledge discovery experiments through
the orchestration of semantic graph mining services. As the
experimental result, the ﬁrst global herb-drug interaction
network is mapped through semantic integration of legacy
relational databases in Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM)
domain, and Spora system is applied on this network to dis-
cern interesting patterns such as frequent sub-graphs (Fig-
ure 3) and community structures (Figure 4). In the resulting
network (Figure 4), most nodes (99.3 %) participate in the
largest connected components; a small proportion of herbs
emerge as hubs through very active connectivity, and they
are also at the centrality of the network (based on pair-wise
node distance calculation) and serve to connect local drug
communities; and there is also a big drug community that
consists many biggest hubs in the network, revealing that
drug hubs tend to cluster together in TCM domain.

TCM domain experts are interested in these machine-
learned patterns rendered as semantic graphs, and realized
with amaze that all herbs are connected through decentral-
ized orchestration of formulae in their hands. They evaluate
the platform’s major technical features as original and pro-
ductive in TCM drug usage, discovery, and safety analysis,
and evaluate the resulting visualized patterns as reﬂecting
TCM practice and potentially leading to a deeper under-
standing of TCM underlying mechanisms.

The proposed poster contains two components: one will
focus on the semantic graph mining methodology, tools, and
systems with their Web-based interfaces (Figure 1,2); the
other will focus on the description and medical interpre-
tation of computational analysis and knowledge discovery
results,
including statistical characteristics, frequent sub-
graphs, and community structures of TCM networks.

1085WWW 2008 / Poster PaperApril 21-25, 2008 · Beijing, ChinaFigure 1: The DartGrid semantic query and search
portal supports interactive discovery of TCM infor-
mation and knowledge across database boundaries,
through the paradigms of query, search, and navi-
gation based on shared domain ontology.

Figure 2: The Spora system performs semantic
graph mining on the Semantic Web, models a dis-
covery experiment as a tree of operators with cus-
tomizable properties, and visualizes data mining re-
sults through interactive tables, charts, and graphs.

Figure 3: The representation of frequently-occuring
patterns as semantic graphs, can help users to un-
derstand and interpret these patterns, and make it
easier to index, search, merge, and/or compare re-
lated patterns. The patterns are obtained by dis-
covering frequently-occuring subgraphs from a set
of semantic graphs extracted from heterogeneous
data resources, and visualized as a directed, labeled
graph for human interpretation.

Figure 4: Global network of frequent herb-drug in-
teractions, with drugs represented by nodes with
size/font proportional to degree, interactions repre-
sented by edges,and drug communities represented
by distinct colors. This integrated semantic graph
is mapped by merging results of semantic searching
for herb-drug interactions from the TCM Semantic
Web portal. A clustering algorithm is applied on
the graph to decern local communities.

2. CONCLUSION

We presented an in-use Semantic Web platform support-
ing large-scale database integration, information retrieval,
and knowledge discovery for Traditional Chinese Medicine
domain. This platform demonstrates the Semantic Web’s
ability to connect data from interrelated domains for in-
terdisciplinary research, and contributes to the preservation
and modernization of TCM as intangible cultural heritage.

3. ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

This work is funded in part by China 973 subprogram

NO.2003CB316906, China NSF program NO. NSFC60503018,
China 863 program NO. 2006AA01A123, China NSF pro-
gram No.60525202, and China NSF program No.60533040.

4. ADDITIONAL AUTHORS

Xiaohong Jiang, Yi Feng, Yuxin Mao (Zhejiang Univer-
sity, {jiangxh,fengyi,maoyx}@zju.edu.cn), Heng Wang,
Jingming Tang, Chunying Zhou (Zhejiang University,
{paulwang,jmtang981,02rjgczcy}@zju.edu.cn).

5. REFERENCES
[1] H. J. Chen, Y. M. Wang, H. Wang, Y. X. Mao, J. M.

Tang, C. Y. Zhou, A. N. Yin, and Z. H. Wu. Towards a
semantic web of relational databases: A practical
semantic toolkit and an in-use case from traditional
chinese medicine. In ISWC 2006: Proceedings of the 5th
International Semantic Web Conference, pages
750–763, Berlin / Heidelberg, 2006. Springer.

1086WWW 2008 / Poster PaperApril 21-25, 2008 · Beijing, China