Panel 

The Future of Online Social Interactions:  

What to Expect in 2020 

Moderator/Organizer: 

Ajita John 
Avaya Labs  

Lincroft, NJ 07738 
ajita@avaya.com 

 

Lada Adamic 
Univ. of Michigan, 

USA 

Marc Davis 
Yahoo Inc., 

USA 

Organizer: 

Dorée D. Seligmann 

Avaya Labs  

New York, NY 10103 
doree@avaya.com 

 

David A. Shamma   

Yahoo Inc., USA 

Dorée D. Seligmann 

Avaya Labs, USA 

 

Frank Nack   
Univ. of Amsterdam, 
The Netherlands 

Categories and Subject Descriptors 
H.0 [Information Systems]: General 

 

in  and  experience 

General Terms: Design, Human Factors 
 
PANEL OVERVIEW 
Blogs,  wikis,  tagging,  podcasts,  and  social  networking  websites 
such as MySpace, Facebook, Flickr and YouTube have radically 
changed user interactions on the World Wide Web from a static, 
one-way,  consumption  model 
to  a  dynamic,  multi-way, 
participation  model.  Broad  user  power  and  flexibility  have 
changed  how  people  engage 
their 
interconnections,  interests,  and  collaborations.  Online  social 
interactions will evolve in the next decade to address the growing 
needs of its user community and make entries into many aspects 
of  our  lives.  This  evolution  may  very  well  be  among  the  most 
exciting  ones  of  our  times  where  the  individual  and  collective 
power  of  people  to  contribute  and  share  content,  experiences, 
ideas, expertise etc. may be even more enhanced than it is today. 
The enhancement may be shaped through a better understanding 
of  user  needs  and  behavior  and  it  may  be  enabled  through  the 
seamless  convergence  of  multi-modal 
technologies,  new 
applications,  new  domains,  data  mining  and  better  navigational 
and search capabilities. Some of these changes will also permeate 
into the workplace and change the way we work.  This panel will 
discuss  how  online  social  interactions  may  evolve  in  the  next 
decade and what impact it may have on diverse dimensions in our 
world. 
Biography:  Dr.  Lada  A.  Adamic  is  assistant  professor  in  the 
School  of  Information  and the Center for the Study of Complex 
Systems  at  the  University  of  Michigan.  Her  research  interests 
center  on  information  dynamics  in  networks:  how  information 
diffuses, how it can be found, and how it influences the evolution 
of  a  network's  structure.  She  worked  previously  in  Hewlett-
Packard's Information Dynamics Lab. Her projects have included 
identifying  expertise  in  online  question  answer  forums,  studying 
the dynamics of viral marketing, and characterizing the structure 
in blogs and other online communities. 

Copyright is held by the author/owner(s). 
WWW 2008, April 21–25, 2008, Beijing, China. 
ACM 978-1-60558-085-2/08/04. 

and  ultimately 

and  perspectives 

Biography: Dr. Marc Davis is Social Media Guru at Yahoo! Inc. 
His work focuses on creating the technology and applications that 
will  enable  daily  media  consumers  to  become  daily  media 
producers.  His  research  encompasses  the  theory,  design,  and 
development  of  digital  media  systems  that  leverage  contextual 
metadata  and  the  power  of  community  to  enable  people  around 
the  world  to  produce,  share,  and  remix  media.  Marc  earned  his 
B.A. in the College of Letters at Wesleyan University, his M.A. in 
Literary Theory and Philosophy at the University of Konstanz in 
Germany,  and  his  Ph.D.  in  Media  Arts  and  Sciences  at  the 
Massachusetts Institute of Technology Media Laboratory. 
Panel Statement: Frank Nack 
Despite  the  fact  that  we  already  see  the  approach  of  the  'social 
network fatigue' syndrome it seems to me that the social aspect of 
media generation and consumption on the web will grow. The key 
push  for  this  development  will  be  the  wish  of  humans  to  share 
experiences  in  a  globalised  and  nomadic  world,  where  the  trace 
replaces  the  tag.  The  most  valuable  experience  challenges  our 
assumptions 
alters  our 
understanding of information and thereby our own internal model of 
the world. In this sense, challenge is indeed the challenge we face 
for  information  systems.  Current  systems  utilise  similitude  as 
selector of new experience. ‘If you liked that then you’ll like this’. 
However the more profound and hence lasting experiences are the 
unexpected ones that are at once accessible and confrontational. It is 
easy to be either, but being both is a demanding challenge. So far we 
have little capability in marshalling such experience for users but in 
2020 this will be different. 
The  basis  for  social  online  interaction  is  to  root  technological 
developments in the understanding that information interest is based 
on sensory experiences that is shaped and filtered by emotional and 
cultural  memories.  Exploring  a  museum,  a  city  or  a  virtual 
knowledge space is an infinitely personal experience that exists as a 
multi-modal  /  multi-media  memory  that  constantly  changes  as  we 
experience again and again - and we would like to communicate this 
change.  The  sensory  experience  can  be  determined  by  many 
different  factors:  navigation,  speed,  focus.  In  addition  we  perform 
actions  that  act  as  component  of  our  strategy  to  achieve  the  goal: 
random exploration of the physical space or the intellectual space, 
follow the shortest paths to reach artifacts in a museum or places in a 
city, or look for different intellectual invitations. How we proceed 
depends on our experiences of similar places or events. If a system 
has  access  to  some  of  these  components  it  can  to  some  extend 

1255WWW 2008 / Panel OverviewApril 21-25, 2008 · Beijing, Chinainterest  and 

thus  serve  our 

predict  our 
information  and 
communication need. Thus social online interaction will be rooted in 
contextualised traces we leave wherever we want to. Social online 
interaction will be mobile and immersive interaction. 
Biography: Dr. Frank Nack is tenure associate professor at the 
Human-Computer  Studies  Group  of  the  Informatics  Institute  of 
the Univ. of Amsterdam. He obtained his Ph.D. with a thesis on 
“The Application of Video Semantics and Theme Representation 
for  Automated  Film  Editing,”  at  Lancaster  University,  UK.  The 
thrust of his research is on the representation, retrieval and reuse 
of  media 
in  distributed  hypermedia  systems,  educational 
hypermedia  systems  that  enhance  human  communication  and 
creativity,  computational  applications  of  media 
theory  & 
semiotics,  automated  video  editing,  interactive  storytelling,  and 
computational  humour  theory.  He  is  on  the  editorial  board  of 
IEEE Multimedia.  
Panel Statement: David Ayman Shamma 
The  web is about people: people who interact with other people 
through  a  flurry  of  emails,  instant  messages,  media,  and  RSS 
feeds.    Often,  APIs,  protocol,  and  resource  driven  technologies 
become the focus of how we think as researchers, designers, and 
engineers.    The  techno-centric  view  of  the  web  does  not  fully 
account for the social world.  Who we are has become the sum of 
every  blog  post  to  every  Flickr  upload.    Our  posts  create 
conversations online (such as asynchronous comments on a video) 
and offline (talking about an online video while getting a coffee). 
The  volume  of  digitally  mediated  communication  is  rising  with 
our growing and ever-present connectivity and mobility.  Greater 
connectivity brings new experiences from mobile applications to 
web-social  platforms.  Where  once  we  examined  signal  to  noise 
ratios,  we  now  turn  to  examine  online  life  narratives  present  in 
social connection to friends, family, communities, and the world.  
The future of online social interactions requires a conversational 
redux.  Content  semantics  alone  is  not  sufficient.    How  we 
consume  media  (photos  and  videos)  will  become  conversation 
centric. Conversational semantics, found in the conversations that 
ensue  around  media,  is  as  important  as  traditional  content-based 
semantics.    Today,  the  same  image  posted  to  Flickr  and  to 
Facebook  brings  different  conversations.  As  we  extend  beyond 
asynchronous threads, we must look at how people are implicitly 
and  explicitly  sharing  media  with 
their  communities  and 
understand  the  supporting  online  social  context.    Conversational 
semantics will be an inherent part of the experience and a primary 
area  of  investigation  for  future  research.    Early  research  in 
conversational semantics has begun from synchronized sharing of 
video-on-demand,  to  live  streaming  to  geo-social  platforms.    As 
we begin to think of media as a combination of conversations and 
content, we should turn to the investigation of pragmatics in the 
current generation of social platforms to better understand social 
online semantics in the future. 
Biography: Dr. David Ayman Shamma is a research scientist at 
Yahoo!  and  is  interested  in  how  communities  affect  the  sharing 
and  dissemination  of  media  (including  music,  images,  videos, 
artworks, 
focuses  on 
understanding creativity as well as building new creative models 
and  tools.  Using  models  of  creativity  from  his  research,  Ayman 
builds tools for new media sharing experiences that are rooted in 
conversational semantics.  He also creates media art installations 
that  have  been  reviewed by The New York Times, International 
Herald  Tribune,  and  Chicago  Magazine  and  exhibited 
 

and  performances).  His 

research 

the  core  of  on-line 

internationally,  including  Second  City  Chicago,  SIGGRAPH 
ETECH,  Chicago 
Improv  Festival,  Wired  NextFest  and 
NextMusic. Ayman holds a B.S. and a M.S. from the Institute for 
Human and Machine Cognition at The Univ. of West Florida and 
a  Ph.D.  in  Computer  Science  from  the  Intelligent  Information 
Laboratory at Northwestern Univ. Prior to receiving his Ph.D., he 
was a visiting research scientist at NASA. 
Panel Statement: Dorée Duncan Seligmann 
Soon social networks will become truly communication enabled, as 
communications  solutions  become  more  intelligent, starting  a  shift 
away  from  just  content  to  putting  context,  communications,  and 
communications  data  at 
interactions. 
Communications  will  be  fully  integrated  and  unified  with  social 
software, and contextual communication data across media will be 
shared  and  analyzed  to  drive  a  new  user  experience.  This  will 
change the way we connect, interact, share, and find each other and 
transform the communications user experience we are familiar with 
today into a socially aware, context based one.   
Imagine a search on a keyword that returns a list of items ranked by 
communicative  or  contextual  relevance  as  opposed  to  content  and 
large scale popularity. The ranking could consider if the information 
or  the  interaction  sought  is  best  from  a  certain  source  (a  person’s 
whose opinion is respected by the searcher, or a person with whom 
there  is a history of successful interactions) – through a particular 
medium (that is more accessible, comprehensible to that searcher), 
in a particular context (from a particular forum or news site).  Such a 
search could return: people available to chat on that subject now, a 
list of blogs written by people whom you have valued before on that 
subject,  or  product  ratings  from  people  with  like  interests  and 
backgrounds, it could set up a forum from a group of people on-line. 
Such a search would not return a list of content, but rather content 
vehicles,  the  people,  devices,  media,  modalities  that  are  most 
valuable 
time  could  establish 
communications directly.  These rankings could be accessed directly 
by  users,  but  more  importantly  would  drive  the  processes  that 
automate and manage communications.  
Communications in social software often seems like an afterthought, 
when indeed it is the core of the user experience to connect with, 
share, meet, and interact with each other. We often  lose the context 
of the a social network to engage in realtime communications using 
separate  communications  channels;  and  rarely  is  presence  and 
context 
the  social  network  and 
communications  systems.   For  example,  a  user’s  presence  in  a 
virtual  world  is  not  shared  with  her  presence  on  a  cellphone 
network; her ratings and comments about products on a website are 
not  part  of  her  customer  profile  when  interacting  with  a  contact 
center.  
Biography:  Dr.  Dorée  Duncan  Seligmann  is  the  director  of 
Collaborative  Applications  Research  at  Avaya  Labs.    Her  work 
encompasses social software, communication-enabling businesses 
processes, 
presence-based 
technologies,  mobile  communication  solutions,  communications 
middleware, user-interface techniques and speech-based systems. 
She holds 12 patents and, since joining Avaya, has filed over 50 
patents ranging in topics from informative ringbacks to intelligent 
context-based systems. Dorée was a Distinguished Member of the 
Technical Staff at Bell Laboratories. Dorée has received an A.B. 
in  anthropology  from  Harvard.    She  has  earned  a  Ph.D.  in 
Computer  Science  from  Columbia  University.  She  is  associative 
editor in chief for IEEE MultiMedia. 

information  shared  across 

to  you  and  at 

context-aware 

the  same 

applications, 

1256WWW 2008 / Panel OverviewApril 21-25, 2008 · Beijing, China