 

Message from the Chair of IW3C2 

And, in the spiced Indian air …  

 
On  behalf  of  the  International  World  Wide  Web  Conference  Committee 
(IW3C2), the steering committee for this conference series, I welcome you 
to the 20th conference of our series. As you may already know, the World 
Wide  Web  was  first  conceived  in  1989  by  Tim  Berners-Lee  at  CERN  in 
Geneva, Switzerland. The first conference of the series, WWW1, was held 
at  CERN  in  1994  and  organized  by  Robert  Cailliau.  The  IW3C2  was 
founded by Joseph Hardin and Robert Cailliau later in 1994 and has been 
responsible  for  the  conference  series  ever  since.  I  have  personally  been 
lucky  enough  to  be  part  of  this  community  since  WWW2,  when  I  co-
authored a poster. After 1994 and 1995 (when two conferences were held 
each year), WWWn became an annual event held in late April or early May. 
This year, the conference is in late March, in recognition of the average high temperatures crossing 100 
degrees Fahrenheit in these months in Hyderabad, the host city.  

The location of the conference generally rotates among the Americas, Europe, and Asia/Pacific. In 2001 we 
changed  the  conference  designator  from  a  number  (1  through  10)  to  the  year  it  is  held;  i.e.,  WWW11 
became  known  as  WWW2002.  You  may  browse  our  website  http://www.iw3c2.org/  for  information  on 
past  and  future  conferences.  WWW2015  is  now  open  for  bids,  preferably  from  a  host  in  Europe.  We 
encourage you to point interested parties to the “Host a Conference” section of the IW3C2’s web site.  

The  International  WWW  Conference  series  provides  the  world  with  a  premier  forum  about  the 
development  of  the  Web,  the  standardization  of  its  associated  technologies,  and  the  Web’s  impact  on 
society and culture. These conferences bring together researchers, developers, users, and vendors – indeed 
all of you who are passionate about the Web and what it has to offer, now and in the future. Part of what is 
exciting  about  this  series  is  the  cross  boundary  and  eclectic  nature  of  the  topics  covered,  and  the 
opportunity it provides for exploration of new directions, both technological and social.  

We appreciate the cooperation of ACM which makes our conference the best in the Web area. We also 
wish to recognize our long-term associate, the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C). Many thanks to all 
our WWW2011 sponsors, who make this event possible.  

We  are  excited  about  the  opportunity  to  bring  the  conference  series  web  community  to  India,  and  to 
Hyderabad, to share the culture, technology, food, and commerce of this beautiful city with all of you. We 
thank  IIIT-B  who  serves  as  our  gracious  hosts,  and  the  general  chairs  S.  Sadagopan  and  Krithi 
Ramamritham, and associate general chairs Arun Kumar and M P Ravindra, for all their hard work. Let us 
all take this opportunity to learn new things in technology, in culture, and in business, from each other! 

               
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 Mary Ellen Zurko 
IBM Software Group 

 

