Message from the General Chairs 

 
Welcome  to  the  Nineteenth  International  World  Wide  Web  Conference  in  the  “City  of  Oaks,”  Raleigh, 
North Carolina! 

The road to Raleigh has been in the works for three years, and getting here has involved the hard work and 
dedication of many individuals, beginning with the Chair of the Local Arrangements Committee, Kathy 
Green. Kathy co-developed and presented the initial Raleigh site proposal in Banff at WWW2007. After 
Raleigh was designated the site for WWW2010, she worked tirelessly to channel the cumulative efforts of 
hundreds of conference committee members, guiding the process every step of the way. Kathy’s role as the 
central node in a large network of individuals and organizations—including the Program Committee, the 
conference  management  company  (YCC),  the  Raleigh  Convention  Center,  the  ACM  and  its  publishing 
company, sponsors and many more—was pivotal to the success of the conference. 

Thanks also to the members of the IW3C2 and its site visitation subcommittee for their confidence in the 
Raleigh-based  team  and  their  guidance  along  the  way.  Special  thanks  to  Vincent  Shen,  who  on  a 
coincidental  visit  to  Raleigh  way  back  in  2000,  initiated  the  conversation  about  hosting  WWW,  and  to 
Bebo White, our liaison to the IW3C2, a native “Tar Heel” who supported the Raleigh proposal from the 
start, and who kept the idea alive in the days before we believed it was possible. 

The  quality  of  the  technical  program  owes  much  to  the  dedication  of  the  Program  Committee  chairs, 
Juliana Freire and Soumen Chakrabarti. Juliana and Soumen brought their enthusiasm and experience to the 
challenging  task  of  selecting  the  very  best  work  from  hundreds  of  submissions.  With  a  keen  focus  on 
process improvement, they led the efforts of 43 committee chairs and no less than 376 members to deliver a 
superb 5-day program including 10 workshops, 11 tutorials, 105 technical papers, and 90 posters. 

WWW2010  would  not  be  possible  without  the  support  of  the  host  institutions,  North  Carolina  State 
University and the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. Thanks to colleagues on both campuses 
who  came  together  to  help  make  this  week  in  Raleigh  a  success.  Thanks  also  to  our  sponsors;  their 
continued support is critical to the sustainability of the conference series. 

We have the privilege of hosting WWW2010 in the beautiful new Raleigh Convention Center—which was 
still under construction when the site proposal was made. Our sincere appreciation goes to the convention 
center management team, which worked with us from the beginning to ensure a successful conference.  

To  the  aforementioned  individuals  and  many,  many  more,  please  know  that  your  contributions  to 
WWW2010 are sincerely appreciated. 
 

 

General Co-Chairs 
Michael Rappa 
North Carolina State University 

 

 
 

 
 

Paul Jones 
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill 

