BizCQ: Using Continual Queries to Cope with Changes  

in Business Information Exchange 

Wei Tang 

NCR Teradata Division 
100 N. Sepulveda Blvd. 

El Segundo, CA 90245, USA 

310-524-6072  

Kipp Jones 
nuBridges, LLC. 

Building 400, Suite 632 
Atlanta, GA 30328, USA 

770-730-3722 

Ling Liu, Calton Pu 
College of Computing 

Georgia Institute of Technology 
Atlanta, GA 30332-0280, USA 

404-385-{1139, 1106} 

wt185001@ncr.com 

kjones@nubridges.com  

{lingliu,calton}@cc.gatech.edu

ABSTRACT 
In  this  poster,  we  propose  the  framework  of  BizCQ,  a  system  to 
apply  Continual  Queries  [7][8]  on  Web-based  content  to  manage 
information exchanges between two business partners. In this poster, 
we describe ways to leverage previous research in Web monitoring 
techniques  applied  to  the  everyday  problem  of  managing  change 
within  a  business  environment,  and  focus  on  the  difficulties  of 
managing changes that are caused by external parties in business-to-
business (B2B) information exchanges. 

 INTRODUCTION 

Categories and Subject Descriptors:  H.3.1  Content 
Analysis  and  Indexing,  H.3.3  Information  Search  and  Retrieval 
(Information  filtering),  H3.4  Systems  and  Software  H.3.5  Online 
Information Services 
General Terms: Experimentation, Human Factors. 
Keywords:  Change  response,  semantic  web,  information 
quality, continual query, business-to-business, B2B. 
1. 
Web page monitoring tools [1][7][8][10] have been developed and 
used  to  help  people  keep  current  as  information  on  the  Web  has 
changed.  These  monitoring  systems  differ  in  quality  of  difference 
generation  and  summarization  as  well  as  methods  of  notification 
delivery. To date, the uses have been focused on keeping people up 
to date. However, very little work has been done to explore the use 
for  automating  and  integrating  change  response  to  business 
processes impacted by the changes. 
In  this  poster,  we  propose  a  framework  to  integrate  automated 
change detection and notification systems for response automation. 
In particular, we apply the WebCQ system [7] to solve real business 
problems and study the extensions to adapt to changes based on the 
type, quality, and semantics of the changes detected. 
This framework is applied to a problem that has plagued companies 
that do electronic business-to-business information exchange.  This 
problem  centers  on  the  need  for  systems  to  remain  compliant  to 
specified  document  formats  and  protocols  while  continuously 
modifying and upgrading the computing systems to support ongoing 
business needs.  In short, it takes energy to continuously update an 
information  exchange  system  in  order  to  avoid  the  degradation  of 
that system.  
There  are  a  number  of  hurdles that must be overcome in order to 
 
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s). 
WWW 2004, May 17–22, 2004, New York, New York, USA. 
ACM 1-58113-912-8/04/0005. 

reach the goal of automating change management. This poster will 
explore three of these topics: change detection, change response and 
emerging standards.  

2.  SYSTEM ARCHITECTURE 
The BizCQ framework builds on top of the current WebCQ system 
in that it incorporates a change response service. In WebCQ [7][8], 
users establish ‘sentinels’ as software agents to watch for changes to 
various  Web  pages  containing 
interest.  The 
difference is that besides the normal email notification method, an 
external  response  action  can  be  registered  for  trusted  parties  at 
sentinel installation time.  
A response action field (see Figure 1) is used to connect the BizCQ 
change  response  subsystem  with  the  client-side  response  action 
proxy. In case of detected change happening, the client-side action 
will be invoked for appropriate responses. For a detailed description 
of other system components, please see [7][8]. 

information  of 

web page sentinel

Change 
Action

Rules 
Engine

Rules

Change 
Response 

Service

Annotations

WebCQ Sentinel 

Installation 
Manager

Page
Fetch
Web 
page

Page
Fetch

Proxy Cache 

Service

Remote

Page Fetch
Web page

Static Page 

Crawler

Remote

Page Fetch
Web page

Dynamic 

Page Crawler

HTTP
Query

Static Web

Page

HTTP
Query

Dynamic Web

Page

WebCQ 
Metadata

WebCQ 
Daemon

Web
Page

Change Detection

Object 
Extraction

Sentinel 
Evaluation

Object 
Cache 
Update

Change Summary 
Generation

Difference 
Generation

Difference 
Presentation

Change 

Summarization

Change Notification

Notification 
Condition 
Evaluation

Notification 

Action

Remote 
Service 

Call

Change Notification

Figure 1. BizCQ Framework Overview 

 

3.  CHANGE DETECTION 
Change detection is crucial to change monitoring services. The main 
tasks  of  change  detection  include  accurately  extracting  and 
identifying  objects  on  the  target  Web  page,  detecting  changes 
between the page’s last visited snapshot and the current copy, and 
generating  visual  differences  and  summarizations.  The  change 
detection sub-system is based on work done previously by [7][8].    

470BizCQ inherits the basic semantics for Web page changes and their 
associated  page  sentinel  definitions  [7][8].  These  sentinels  are 
created to track relevant page changes, such as hyperlinks, images, 
words, phrases, lists, and tables and are the basic building blocks for 
identifying application domain specific changes. 
There  are  several  classes  of  changes:  Structural  changes, 
Informational  changes,  Presentational  changes  and  Semantic 
changes.  The  most  important  class  for  this  problem  domain  are 
semantic  changes,  which  are  generally  the most difficult to model 
and capture. 
4.  CHANGE RESPONSE FOR 
INFORMATION EXCHANGES 
Business  information  exchanges  often  involve  complex  and  often 
manual  processes.  Because  many  updates  will  trigger  certain 
“status” changes, the ability to monitor the changes and respond to 
them  becomes  inevitably  important.  The  ability  to  formulate  a 
response based on the type, semantics, and value of the change is an 
important  step  towards  automating  the  monitoring  and  change 
response process.  
To help the BizCQ system provide relevance, we have proposed an 
extension to the WebCQ system to provide annotation capability to 
the  definition  of  sentinels.    This  annotated  information  provides 
hints  to  both  the  human  respondent  as  well  as  the  automated 
response system. 
The  Web  service  notification  allows  the  system  to  dynamically 
change  and  grow  its  capabilities  over  time.    Through  this  loosely 
coupled  connection, 
the  change 
measurement,  and  the  change  response  can  all  be  modified  and 
expanded without impacting the other subsystems. 

the  change  monitoring, 

5.  EMERGING STANDARDS  
A  robust  system  must  be  able  to  provide  a  level  of  flexibility  in 
order to adjust to emerging technology and standards.  
We  believe  that  newer  mechanisms,  which  are  being  used 
throughout the Internet such as RSS [9], can be leveraged to provide 
another  level  of  service  and  scalability  to  the  change-monitoring 
problem.  This  XML  format  provides  a  mechanism  to  publish 
‘channels’  of  related  information  and  could  be  used  to  publish 
relevant information related to changes on a business partner’s Web 
site. 
Scaling now becomes much simpler, and can be modeled with set 
mathematics along with change characteristics of the site, as: 
equests

#=∩∆+

SR

R

of

HTTP

R

 

Where R is the set of RSS Sentinels, ∆R represent the set of RSS 
feeds  (the  changes  for  that  site),  and  S  is  the  set  of  the  standard 
Sentinels. This assumes all members of S are members of R. 
Determining  the  type  and  semantics  of  a  change  are  another  area 
where standards can play an important role. Each Web site conforms 
to  its  own  structure, format, and amount of information published 
and there is very little correlation between these various systems. 
One standard that has been proposed but not widely adopted is the 
gXML  (guideline  XML)  [5]  standard.  There  are  several  other 
standards  that  are  being  adopted  that  attempt  to  help  with  the 
problem  of  inter-business  information  exchange.    These  include 
Electronic  Business  using  eXtensible  Markup  Language  (ebXML) 
[4]  and  Universal  Description,  Discovery  and  Integration  (UDDI) 
[11].  All of these specifications define common ways to provide a 
standard method to exchange business messages. 
 

6.  RELATED WORK 
We  are  working  on  expanding  the  service  to  cover  more  types  of 
information sources (semi-structured textual sources including PDF, 
Doc,  XML,  etc.)  by  utilizing  more  advanced  object  extraction 
techniques  [6]  and  conversion  tools.  Our  future  work  includes 
extending  the  framework  for  Web  site  and  page  collection 
monitoring  (similar  to  [1]).  Data  mining  and  machine  learning 
approaches  will  be  incorporated  into  the  framework.  We  are  also 
exploring and developing tools for better change visualization [2][3] 
7.  CONCLUSION 
The  use  of  a  Web-based  monitoring  system  (such  as  WebCQ)  to 
manage  and  maintain  information  exchanges  between  business 
partners has considerable value.  Further development of the system 
to  ensure  accurate  results  and  to  assist  users  in  formulating 
appropriate  responses  to  the  changes  is  needed  to  continue  to 
increase the value of the monitoring system. 
The BizCQ framework proposed in this poster aims at providing an 
architecture and a set of techniques for information monitoring on 
the Web or within a corporate space. The change detection system 
and  associated 
such  as  difference  generation, 
presentation, and summarization, as well as the automatic response 
system  will  give  businesses  more  leverage  when  coping  with 
constant information changes.  

techniques 

8.  REFERENCES 
[1]  V. Boyapati, K. Chevrier, A. Finkel, N. Glance, T. Pierce, C. 
Whitmer. ChangeDetector: A site-Level monitoring tool for 
the WWW. In Proceedings of WWW11 Conference, Honolulu, 
Hawaii, May 2002. 

[2]  E. H. Chi, J. Pitkow, J. Mackinlay, P. Pirolli, R. Gossweiler, 

and S. K. Card. Visualizing the evolution of web ecologies. In 
Proceedings of the ACM SIGCHI Conference on human 
factors in computing systems, Los Angeles, CA, 1998. 

[3]  D. B. Crouch, C. J. Crouch, and G. Andreas. The use of cluster 
hierarchies in hypertext information retrieval. In Proceedings 
of Hypertext'89, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, November 1989. 

[4]  ebXML. http://www.ebxml.org/. 
[5]  Guideline XML (gXML). 

http://xml.coverpages.org/gxml.html. 

[6]  L. Liu, C. Pu, and W. Han.  XWRAP: An XML-enabled 

wrapper construction system for Web information sources, In 
Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on Data 
Engineering (ICDE), San Diego CA, February 2000. 

[7]  L. Liu, C. Pu, and W. Tang. WebCQ: detecting and delivering 

information changes on the web. In Proceedings of 
International Conference on Information and Knowledge 
Management (CIKM), Washington D.C., November 2000. 

[8]  L. Liu, W. Tang, D. Buttler, and C. Pu. Information monitoring 

on the web: a scalable solution. World Wide Web Journal, 
Kluwer Academic Publishers, 5(4), pp 263-304, 2002. 

[9]  RSS (RDF Site Summary) 1.0 standard. 

http://web.resource.org/rss/1.0/. 

[10] TrackEngine. http://www.trackengine.com/ 
[11] Universal Description, Discovery, and Integration (UDDI). 

http://www.uddi.org 

471