folleto PAEZ  13/9/06  11:44  Página 2

folleto PAEZ  13/9/06  11:44  Página 3

folleto PAEZ  13/9/06  11:44  Página 4

Main figures

The  Technical  University  of  Madrid  (UPM,  Universidad  Politécnica  de
Madrid) is the oldest and largest of the Spanish Technical Universities.
UPM  has  more  than  three  thousand  faculty  members,  around  thirty
eight  thousand  undergraduate  students,  and  around  six  thousand
postgraduate students.

In  the  style  of  the  french  Grandes  Écoles,  UPM  is  made  up  of  21
Schools dealing with the different areas of technology. Twelve of them
are  Advanced  Technical  Schools  awarding  engineering  degrees  of
either  five  or  six  years  duration,  and  the  rest  are  Technical  Schools
which award three years study degrees.

UPM’s  Schools  cover  most  engineering  disciplines,  including
Aeronautical,  Agronomical,  Chemical,  Civil,  Electrical,  Electronic,
Forestry,  Industrial,  Mechanical,  Mining,  Geology,  Energy  and  Naval
Engineering,  as  well  as  Architecture,  Computer  Science,  Design  of
Fashion  and  Geodesy  &  Cartography.  In  addition,  UPM  includes  a
Center for Physical Education and Sports.

folleto PAEZ  13/9/06  11:45  Página 5

Madrid

Madrid is the capital of Spain and the political and financial center of the country. It is a
modern  city  with  a  vibrant  economic  and  cultural  life,  and  the  prime  European  hub  to
Latin America.

The region of Madrid receives two thirds of foreign investment coming into Spain, and is also
the  source  of  two  thirds  of  Spanish  investment  going  abroad.  Its  dynamic  economy  has
recently  attracted  an  important  foreign  immigration  from  such  diverse  places  as  North
Africa, Latin America, Eastern Europe and China. Immigration in turn has helped develop
the  economy  of  the  region  even  more  and  at  the  same  time  has  greatly  enriched its
cultural life. Actually, the current income per capita of the Madrid region is 20% higher than
the European Union average.

Of some 44 million people living in Spain, close to 6 million live in the region of Madrid.
Madrid is home to 13 universities of which 7 are public. UPM is the only public exclusively
technical university among them.

folleto PAEZ  13/9/06  11:45  Página 6

History of UPM

Although  UPM  is  a  young  university,  having  been  founded  only  in  1971,
most of its Schools are over a hundred years old, dating back to the 18th
and  19th  centuries  and  existing  independently  until  they  were  grouped
together as UPM.

It  is  not  an  exaggeration  to  say  that  much  of  the  history  of  Spanish
technology for over one and half centuries was written by the Schools
of Architecture and Engineering of this university, as for many years some
of  them  were  the  only  Technical  Schools  in  existence  in  their  fields  in
Spain.  Almost  all  the  leading  Spanish  educators  and  researchers  have
been involved with UPM either as students, teachers, or both.

folleto PAEZ  13/9/06  11:45  Página 7

folleto PAEZ  13/9/06  11:45  Página 8

Three  of  UPM  Schools  were  founded  in  the  eighteenth  century.  The
School  of  Architecture,  the  oldest,  was  founded  in  1752.  The  Naval
and  Mining  Engineering  Schools  were  established  in  1772  and  1777
respectively.

The Civil Engineering School was the first UPM School to be founded
in the nineteenth century, in the year 1802. Almost half a century later
the School of Forestry Engineering was established in 1848 and shortly
thereafter  the  School  of  Industrial  Engineering  was  started  in  1850.
This  School  today  covers  numerous  additional  fields  such  as
Mechanical, Chemical, Electrical and Nuclear Engineering. The School
of Agronomical Engineering was set up in 1855. 

The School of Telecommunication Engineering (started as the General
School  of  Telegraphy)  was  the  first  of  the  three  UPM  Schools  to  be
created  in  the  twentieth  century,  in  1913.  The  School  of  Aeronautical
Engineering  was  founded  in  1928,  the  Center  for  Physical  Education
and Sports in 1961, and the School of Computer Science in 1977.

The  latest  UPM School  to  be  created  has  been  the  School  of
Topography, Geodesy & Cartography, founded in 2005.

At  about  the  same  time  that  the  Advanced  Schools  offering  longer
careers were created, corresponding Technical Schools offering three
years course of studies were also founded for most of them.

folleto PAEZ  13/9/06  11:45  Página 9

folleto PAEZ  13/9/06  11:45  Página 10

Student life

Most UPM Schools are located in the urban district of Madrid, at the
Madrid  University  Campus,  although  some  of  them  of  more  recent
creation are spread throughout the metropolitan area. UPM offers 3
and 5/6 years degree-programs, covering all engineering areas and
architecture.  Graduate  courses  adapted  to  industrial  needs  are  also
offered which include both doctoral programs and postgraduate courses. 

UPM  graduates  around  5,000  students  every  year,  of  whom  20%  have
participated in international mobility programs and have been trained  in
companies. There are more than 2,000 students enrolled in  doctoral
programs, and each year 200 of them attain their Ph.D degree.

folleto PAEZ  13/9/06  11:45  Página 11

folleto PAEZ  13/9/06  11:45  Página 12

International Relations

UPM  maintains  that  international  education  is  an  excellent  way  to
open minds to other ways of living and working. It therefore gives high
importance  to  international  education  in  the  belief  that  future  peace
and prosperity depend on the ability for people to integrate and work
in a multi-cultural environment.

As  a  result  UPM  has  international  student  exchanges  with  over  400
universities and higher education Centers in Europe and other parts of the
world.  Every  academic  year  close  to  a  thousand  UPM  students  study
abroad and a similar  number of foreign students  study at UPM. In some
of UPM Schools almost 50% of the students already have an average of
two semesters international experience in their careers. It is the goal of
UPM to foster and further expand this international experience.

Toward  this  end,  UPM  has  also  signed  over  sixty  Double  Degree
Agreements  with  different  foreign  universities.  Students  follow  the  last
three  or  four  semesters  of  their  studies  in  a  foireign  university  and  in
exchange  receive  two  degrees,  one  from  UPM  and  another  from  the
foreign university.

folleto PAEZ  13/9/06  11:45  Página 13

In addition, UPM has an active role in the recent European Union Erasmus
Mundus program, leading two Erasmus Mundus master network and par-
ticipating in five more.

For cultural and historical reasons, UPM has especially strong relations
with Latin American universities. Apart from many other activities, UPM
has  some  thirty  Ph.D.  programs  in  cooperation  with  Latin  America
universities. UPM is also leading Magalhães, a new network developing
an Erasmus-like program of engineering student exchanges between the
European Union and Latin America and the Caribbean.

UPM  in  an  active  member  of  numerous  international  associations  of
universities  and  Centers  of  higher  education  including  CESAER,  TIME,
EUA, Athens, EAIE, SEFI, GE4, IAU, LACCEI, EuroPace, and Conference
des Grandes Écoles.

folleto PAEZ  13/9/06  11:45  Página 14

Research

UPM  has  a  strong  commitment  to  R&D  and  Innovation.  Of  a  total
annual budget of around 360 million euro, UPM receives annually over
100 million euro support from external sources (research, consultancy,
validation and certification, and others), clearly indicating its scientific
and  technological  capabilities.  20%  of  external  support  comes  from
international sources. Participation in competitive European and national
R&D  programs  provides  40%  of  the  sponsored  research  funds,  and
research services and contracts with the industrial sector supply the rest.

UPM  ranks  first  among  Spanish  universities  in  European  Union  R&D
funding,  having  around  15%  of  the  total  number  of  European  Union
funded projects such as FP (Framework Program), EUREKA and ESA
(European Space Agency). Its participation in FP6 is strongly focused
on  the  IST  (Information  and  Society  Technology)  program,  which
represents  around  half  of  the  funded  projects.  In  addition,  UPM  has
implemented an entrepreneurship program to promote the creation of
spin-off  companies.  Nineteen  spin-offs  have  been  created  in  the
period 2002-2004.

The  contribution  of  the  university  to  knowledge  creation  through  its
scientific  publications  is  also  significant.  Most  relevant  is  the  high
number  of  papers  published  in  scientific  journals  and  presented  at
conferences.  The  annual  average  figures  are  1,200  journal  papers,
2,000 conference communications and 200 Ph.D. theses.

folleto PAEZ  13/9/06  11:45  Página 15

folleto PAEZ  13/9/06  11:46  Página 16

Most  research  is  carried  out  within  academic  departments  in  research
groups made up of faculty, graduate students, staff and technicians.
Excellent  research  groups  can  be  found  in  several  domains  such  as
materials  science,  biotechnology,  telematics,  software  engineering,
energy,  robotics  and  industrial  organization.  These  research  groups
make  use  of  sophisticated  equipment  and  facilities  and  they  are
experienced in applied research and technology transfer.

In  addition,  UPM  has  other  different  structures  to  handle  research
which  complement  the  department  units.  Institutes,  Centers  and
Laboratories,  most  of  them  well  known  in  their  areas  of  expertise,
count  on  state-of-the-art  facilities  and  provide  key  technical  support
to industry, both nationally and internationally. Some of the specialized
R&D and technological innovation units at UPM are:

• Automobile Research Institute
• Institute of Nuclear Fusion
• Institute of Solar Energy
• Institute for Systems based on Opto and Microelectronics
• Institute for Microgravity
• Institute of Biotechnology and Plant Genomics
• Research Center for Transport
• Center for Smart Homes
• Laser Center

folleto PAEZ  13/9/06  11:44  Página 1

Universidad Politécnica de Madrid

International Relations
Ramiro de Maeztu, 7.
28040 Madrid, Spain.
Phone: +34 91 336 36 59 / 36 65
Fax: +34 91 336 36 64
secretaria.vinternacional@upm.es
www.upm.es

6
0
0
2
 
/
 
9
0

