How NAGA Uncoils: Searching with Entities and Relations

Gjergji Kasneci
Max-Planck-Institut

Saarbruecken / Germany
kasneci@mpii.mpg.de

Fabian M. Suchanek

Max-Planck-Institut

Saarbruecken / Germany

suchanek@mpii.mpg.de

ABSTRACT
Current keyword-oriented search engines for the World Wide
Web do not allow specifying the semantics of queries. We
address this limitation with NAGA1, a new semantic search
engine. NAGA builds on a large semantic knowledge base of
binary relationships (facts) derived from the Web. NAGA
provides a simple, yet expressive query language to query
this knowledge base. The results are then ranked with an
intuitive scoring mechanism. We show the eﬀectiveness and
utility of NAGA by comparing its output with that of Google
on some interesting queries.

Categories and Subject Descriptors:
H.3.3 [Information Search and Retrieval]: General

General Terms: Graph Queries, Knowledge Base, Seman-
tic Search

Keywords: Search, Relation, Entities, Ranking

1.

INTRODUCTION

The World Wide Web is the world’s largest knowledge
base but we are far from exploiting its full potential. In order
to eﬀectively exploit it, we need to extract and structure
the information it makes available and provide expressive
and eﬃcient ways of querying it. Current keyword-oriented
search engines merely provide “best-eﬀort” heuristics to ﬁnd
relevant needles in this humongous haystack.

As a concrete example, suppose we want to ﬁnd out which
other physicists were born in the same year as Max Planck.
First, it is close to impossible to formulate this query in
terms of keywords. Second, the answer to this question is
probably distributed across multiple pages, so that no state-
of-the-art search engine will e able to ﬁnd it.

There are systems that provide graph-oriented keyword
search. However, they focus only on implicit semantic rela-
tions such as foreign key references among database tuples

1In the mythologies of Hinduism and Buddhism, NAGA is
a huge snake. Here, it stands for the size and diversity of
the Web.

Copyright is held by the author/owner(s).
WWW 2007, May 8–12, 2007, Banff, Alberta, Canada.
ACM 978-1-59593-654-7/07/0005.

Maya Ramanath
Max-Planck-Institut

Saarbruecken / Germany

ramanath@mpii.mpg.de

Gerhard Weikum
Max-Planck-Institut

Saarbruecken / Germany
weikum@mpii.mpg.de

[4]) or references among XML elements (e.g.

(e.g.
[3, 2]).
Other approaches (e.g. [7]) rely on manual semantic tagging
of Web data while our work aims at a completely automa-
tized system. Some approaches (e.g.
[1]) use automated
information extraction, but do not reconcile the collected
facts into a uniﬁed and consistent knowledge base and pro-
vide only standard querying capabilities. The ones that do
provide uniﬁed and consistent models (based on OWL or
SPARQL) usually lack the means to express uncertainty,
which is crucial in the context of automated knowledge ex-
traction and representation.

In this paper, we present NAGA, a new semantic search
engine which addresses these problems in an intuitive and
comprehensive way. NAGA builds on a graph-oriented
knowledge base, which consists of facts extracted from the
Web with certain conﬁdence values. NAGA’s expressive
query language can be used to formulate precise queries,
enabling the user to provide detailed information about his
or her information need. The query results are then ranked
according to a scoring mechanism that takes their certainty
values into account.
2. DATA MODEL

NAGA’s data model is a graph, in which nodes are la-
beled with entities (e.g. Max Planck) and edges are labeled
with relationships (e.g. bornInYear). Each edge, together
with its end nodes, represents a fact, e.g. <Max Planck,
bornInYear, 1858> or <Max Planck, type, physicist>.
Since these facts are derived from Web pages using possibly
unreliable Information Extraction techniques, we attach a
certainty value to each fact.
labeled multi-
graph (V, E, Lv, Le), where V is a set of nodes, E ⊆ V × V
is a multi-set of edges, Lv is a set of node labels and Le is
a set of edge labels. Each node v ∈ V has a label l(v) ∈ Lv
and each edge e ∈ E has a label l(e) ∈ Le. We compute the
certainty value c(e) ∈ [0, 1] as:

Formally, our data model is a directed,

nX

c(e) =

C(e, Pi)T (Pi)

i=1

PageRank or similar algorithms. We assumeP

where Pi denotes one of the n pages from which the fact
corresponding to e was derived. The trust value T (Pi) rep-
resents the authority of page Pi and can be computed by
i T (Pi) = 1.
C(e, Pi) is the conﬁdence with which the fact corresponding
to e was extracted from page Pi. Thus, the certainty value
for e accumulates trust and extraction quality values across
all pages in which the corresponding fact was found.

NAGA’s knowledge base is a projection of YAGO [6]. It
contains about 1 million entities and 6 million facts, partly

WWW 2007 / Poster PaperTopic: Search1167extracted by LEILA [5]. A sample of this knowledge-base is
shown below:

the edges:

c(A) =

Y

c(e)

e edge in A

In case there are multiple answers to a query, we return the
top-k answers ranked by their certainty.
4. PRELIMINARY RESULTS
NAGA is implemented in Java on top of an Oracle data
base. The query engine translates the user queries into SQL
and performs graph searches to solve relatedness queries.
We conducted several preliminary experiments to assess the
quality of NAGA’s answers. Below, we present some sam-
ple queries to illustrate the diﬀerence between NAGA and
Google:
Query
When was BBC
News
established?
Which other
physicists were
born in the
same year as
Albert
Einstein?
What is the
connection
between
Einstein and
Bohr?

Google
Answer found
on following
link.
Fails. Gives lots
of links to
Einstein’s
biography.

Links to the
debate between
Bohr and
Einstein on
quantum
theory.

NAGA
1922.

von Laue, Pfund, Burton,
and several others.

Both are scientists. There
are Moon craters and as-
teroid belts named after
them. Tom Cruise con-
nects them by being a veg-
etarian (as Einstein) and
by being born in 1962
(when Bohr died).
Both are female heads
of government, both at-
tended Oxford, both were
politicians
in English-
speaking countries (India
and UK, respectively)

Links of events
involving the
two women

What is the
connection
between Indira
Gandhi and
Margaret
Thatcher?
5. CONCLUSION AND OUTLOOK

We presented NAGA, a new semantic search engine with a
query language that can express complex queries by means
of graph structures and regular expressions over relations.
For future work, we plan to exploit logical inferences in the
knowledge graph and to predict not only the correctness,
but also the interestingness of answers. NAGA can be tried
out online at: http://www.mpii.mpg.de/~suchanek/naga.
7. REFERENCES
6. BLAH
[1] M. Cafarella, C. Re, D. Suciu, and O. Etzioni. Structured

querying of web text data: A technical challenge. In CIDR,
2007.

[2] Sara Cohen, Jonathan Mamou, Yaron Kanza, and Yehoshua
Sagiv. Xsearch: A semantic search engine for xml. In VLDB,
pages 45–56, 2003.

[3] J. Graupmann, R. Schenkel, and G. Weikum. The
spheresearch engine for uniﬁed ranked retrieval of
heterogeneous XML and web documents. In VLDB, 2005.

[4] V. Kacholia, S. Pandit, S. Chakrabarti, S. Sudarshan,

R. Desai, and H. Karambelkar. Bidirectional expansion for
keyword search on graph databases. In VLDB, 2005.
[5] Fabian M. Suchanek, Georgiana Ifrim, and Gerhard

Weikum. Combining linguistic and statistical analysis to
extract relations from web documents. In KDD, 2006.

[6] Fabian M. Suchanek, Gjergji Kasneci, and Gerhard Weikum.
Yago: A Core of Semantic Knowledge. In 16th international
World Wide Web conference (WWW 2007), New York, NY,
USA, 2007. ACM Press.

[7] Max V¨olkel, Markus Kr¨otzsch, Denny Vrandecic, Heiko

Haller, and Rudi Studer. Semantic wikipedia. In WWW,
2006.

3. QUERY AND ANSWER MODEL

In the spirit of the example query in the introduction we
present a taxonomy of queries supported by NAGA. Basi-
cally, a NAGA query is a directed graph G(V, E) where V
is a set of possibly labeled nodes and E a set of possibly
labeled edges.
EVIDENCE QUERIES (EQ) An evidence query is a
connected directed graph the nodes and labels of which are
labeled.

In this case, the user wants to know whether there is any
evidence for a certain hypothesis.
DISCOVERY QUERIES (DQ) A discovery query is a
connected directed graph the nodes and edges of which may
be unlabeled.

Here, the user wants to discover pieces of missing informa-
tion such as entities or relations, represented by unlabeled
nodes or edges respectively. The above query is the query
example from the introduction.
RELATEDNESS QUERIES (RQ) A relatedness query
is a connected directed graph the nodes and edges of which
may be unlabeled and at least one of the edges is labeled
with a regular expression over relationship labels.

In this setting, the user is interested in the broad relation
between pieces of information. Obviously, it holds EQ ⊆
DQ ⊆ EQ.

The answer to a query is a subgraph A of the knowledge
graph that matches the query. For example, NAGA could
answer the above discovery query as follows:

The numbers on the edges of an answer graph represent
the certainties of the facts. In order to compute the over-
all certainty of an answer, the certainties of the edges have
to be accumulated. We think of the certainty value as the
probability that a fact is correct. Since the facts have been
extracted independently, the probability that the complete
answer A is correct is just the product of the certainties of

WWW 2007 / Poster PaperTopic: Search1168