A Generic Framework for Collaborative Multi-perspective 

Ontology Acquisition 

Maayan Zhitomirsky-Geffet, Judit Bar-Ilan, Yitzchak Miller and Snunith Shoham 

Department of Information Science, Bar-Ilan University 

 Ramat-Gan, Israel 

972-3-5318351 

{zhitomim,barilaj,milleri,shohas}@mail.biu.ac.il  

ABSTRACT 
The  research  objective  of  this  work  is  to  develop  a  general 
framework  that  incorporates  collaborative  social  tagging  with  a 
novel  ontology  scheme  conveying  multiple  perspectives.  We 
propose a framework where multiple users tag the same object (an 
image in our case), and an ontology  is  extended  based  on  these 
tags while being tolerant about different points of view. We are 
not  aware  of  any  other  work  that  attempted  to  devise  such  an 
environment and to study its dynamics. The proposed framework 
characterizes the underlying processes for controlled collaborative 
development  of  a  multi-perspective  ontology  and  its  application 
to  improve  image  annotation,  searching  and  browsing.  Our  case 
study experiment with a set of selected annotated images indicates 
the soundness of the proposed ontological model.  
Categories and Subject Descriptors 
H.3.1  [Information  Storage  and  Retrieval]:  Content  Analysis 
and Indexing – thesauruses. 
General Terms 
Experimentation, Algorithms 
Keywords 
Collaborative multi-perspective ontology 
1.  INTRODUCTION 
Tags provide a simple and direct mechanism to create annotations 
that reflect a variety of facets, and also provide a direct means for 
embarking upon  a  search  [7].  However,  purely  tag-based  search 
tends to have low recall performance due to varying vocabulary 
used by different users. For example, in Flickr some photos of the 
Western  Wall  in  Jerusalem  are  annotated  as  “western  wall”, 
others  as  “wailing  wall”,  or  “kotel”,  or  as  “westernwall”.  Tag 
variability is caused also by tagging that refers to some personal 
information and associations of the annotators. Thus, the picture 
of  fireworks  is  tagged  by  “bride”  since  they  took  place  during 
someone’s  wedding.  Obviously,  for  the  searching  user  such 
results are irrelevant. Moreover, when an initial search returns a 
large number of results, tags do not support efficient or intuitive 
query refinement models. 
The alternative approach is to organize information and facilitate 
search  in  digital  libraries  by  using  concept  taxonomies  or 
ontologies. In recent years ontologies have been used to annotate 
digital  content  [4],  and  images  in  particular  [7].  This  helps  to 
avoid  most  of  the  problems  mentioned  above  and  puts  some 

Copyright is held by the author/owner(s). 
WWW 2008, April 21–25, 2008, Beijing, China. 
ACM 978-1-60558-085-2/08/04. 
 
 

structure  and  organization  on  data  collections.  The  main 
disadvantage  of  the  taxonomy/ontology-based  approach  is  being 
based on a strict tree of concepts that does not reflect usage and 
intent [6]. This calls for designing special ontological models that 
will  be  suited  to  reflect  multiple  perspectives  of  the  described 
objects expressed by different user tags.  
Each  of  the  two  above  approaches  –  free  tagging  based  and 
ontology-based – were explored separately during the last years. 
We  believe  that  users  should  not  have  to  choose  between  pure 
tag-based  models  and  pure  taxonomic  models  with  closed 
vocabularies.  Hence,  our  approach  is  to  develop  a  generic 
framework  that  incorporates  collaborative  social  tagging  by  a 
broad community and a  novel  ontology  type,  an  efficient multi-
perspective  ontology.  Perspectives  reflect  different  users’  views 
and opinions of the image. The main idea is that a perspective is a 
set or group of several ontological concepts and their relationships 
and thus it constitutes a new ontological dimension.  For example, 
the  perspectives  used  in  our  Jewish  Cultural  Heritage  Ontology 
depicted  in  Figure  2  are  religious,  historical,  traditional,  artistic 
and geographical perspectives. 
2.  THE COMBINED APPROACH: 
MODELING A DYNAMIC MULTI-
PERSPECTIVE ONTOLOGY 
We  construct  an  ontology  solely  out  of  the  user  tags  given  for 
each  image  which  is  then  further  dynamically  extended  as  new 
images and annotations arrive. The basic set of generic domain-
independent  relationships  in  the  ontology  consists  of  hyponymy 
(solid  arrows  in  Figure  2),  meronymy  (dotted  arrows),  attribute 
(dashed  arrows),  synonymy  and 
relationships. 
Synonyms  are  grouped  together  into  WordNet-style  synsets  [2]. 
Each  concept 
to  some 
perspective(s). In addition to the classic inheritance of hypernyms 
and  some  cases  of  meronyms,  our  framework  allows  for  a  new 
inference  rule  –  inheritance  of  a  perspective  through  the 
hyponymy hierarchy relations. 
Unlike  in  [5]  and  [3],  collaborative  ontology  construction 
methods  and  the  popular  existing  systems  for  image  annotation 
like Flickr, we restrict tags and image indexing through ontology 
by  applying  some  qualitative  and  quantitative  conditions  in  our 
framework,  mainly  to  ensure  fine  structure,  eliminate  spam  and 
filter out too personal tags and misspellings. We devised rules for 
concept and perspective insertion and linking to images:  
1. Adding new concepts to the ontology 
To  ensure  consistency  and  "noise"  reduction  a  tag  becomes  a 
concept only if several people used it to describe the same image 
–  i.e.  it  has  a  high  tag  popularity  rank  (TPR)  for  that  image 
(TPR(image,  tag)  >  threshold,  where  threshold  >  1  and  is 
estimated empirically). Thus, using the same tags again increases 

related  directly  or 

instance-of 

is 

indirectly 

1027WWW 2008 / Poster PaperApril 21-25, 2008 · Beijing, Chinathe  popularity  rank  of  these  tags  which  at  some  point  will  turn 
them into concepts in the ontology.  
2. Linking concepts to perspectives 
The  system  presents  a  list  of  the  existing  perspectives  and  each 
user  has  to  choose  her  own  perspectives  for  the  image  being 
annotated.  As  a  result  each  concept  might  be  linked  to  multiple 
perspectives  in  the  ontology  assigned  by  different  users  if  the 
perspective  popularity  rank  (PPT)  exceeds  some  applied 
threshold.  Thus,  associating  concepts  (coming  from  tags)  to 
various perspectives is also a collaborative process. Concepts also 
inherit  perspectives  from  their  hypernyms.  Users  can  also  add 
new perspectives to the ontology if they find it necessary. 
3. Image indexing via ontology 
Images are linked to the perspectives and to particular concepts in 
the  ontology  by  their  annotation  tags  in  order  to  enable  multi-
directional  retrieval,  both  through  free  text  search  and  reaching 
related images through the tags attached to the image, and through 
conceptual browsing.  
Thus, we observe that user annotation influences the ontological 
structure which in turn influences the way images are indexed and 
retrieved in the system. 
3.  SIMULATION EXPERIMENT: 
ONTOLOGY ACQUISITION FOR 
ANNOTATED IMAGES 
Here the process is demonstrated for a single image, a ketubah (a 
Jewish marriage license) that was tagged by twenty users [1]. The 
tags  were  associated  with  perspectives  by  a  different  group  of 
fifteen  users.  The  ketubah  in  Figure  1  is  from  the  eighteenth 
century  from  Livorno,  Italy  –  this  information  was  available  to 
the taggers as well. The ketubah is displayed in the Museum of 
the Italian Jewry in Jerusalem. 

 
Figure 1. Ketubah 

The tags assigned by the users that were above the threshold are: 
ketubah,  Italy,  Judaism,  marriage,  ancient  ketubah,  wedding, 
Jewish  art,  Jewish  wedding,  Livorno,  Museum  of  the  Italian 
Jewry, illustrated ketubah, Judaica, treasures of the Italian Jewry, 
ancient Hebrew and history. 
The  second  group  of  users  assigned  these  tags  to  perspectives 
(each tag could be assigned to several perspectives). The resulting 
ontology with the perspectives that passed the threshold for each 
tag is depicted in Figure 2. 
4.  CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE WORK 
We  have  proposed  a  generic  framework  where  the  ontology  is 
developed  in  parallel  and  naturally  applied  from  the  time  the 
system is launched, rather  than  being  induced  artificially  on  the 
existing tagging system. Consequently, during the search process,  

 

History 

Judaism 

Italy 

Jewish 

Art

Ancient 
Ketubah 

Ketubah 

Italian 
Jewry 

Ancient 
Hebrew 
writing 

 Jewish 
Wedding 

Livorno 

Judaica 

Painted 
Ketubah 

Museum 
of Italian 
Jewry

Marriage 

 Wedding 

Treasure 
of Italian 
Jewry

Figure 2. The Ketubah ontology. The religious perspective is 
light yellow; the historical is light blue; the artistic is light 
purple and the geographical is light green. The traditional 
perspective is not marked, since almost all the tags were 

associated with it. 

the  user  queries  are  matched  against  the  ontological  concepts 
rather than against raw tags. 
Using  the  induced  ontology  to  control  the  system  vocabulary 
during image storage and indexing process is expected to increase 
the  precision  and  reduce  “noise”  at  the  retrieval  phase.    This  is 
achieved  by  indexing  images  with  corresponding  concepts  from 
the ontology, while dropping off too personal and rare user tags. 
In addition, if a user is only interested in a certain perspective of 
images our system may easily provide her with this information, 
and  thus  save  time  and  browsing  effort.  After  showing  the 
conceptual principles of our framework and its implementation by 
manual simulation of the processes we will develop ways to turn 
the proposed rules into algorithms for a semi-automatic approach. 
We  intend  to  explore  the  performance  of  the  system  where  the 
constructed ontology will be utilized for image retrieval. 
5.  REFERENCES 
[1]  Bar-Ilan, J., Shoham, S., Idan, A., Miller, Y., & Shachak, A. 
(2006). Structured vs. unstructured tagging – A case study, 
Collaborative Web Tagging Workshop. WWW2006. 
Edinburgh. 

[2]  Fellbaum, A. WordNet. (1997). 

http://wordnet.princeton.edu/perl/webwn 

[3]  Handschuh, S., S. Staab, A. Maedche. (2001). CREAM — 

Creating relational metadata with a component-based, 
ontology-driven annotation framework. In Proceedings of the 
1st K-CAP. Vancouver, Canada. pp. 76-83 

[4]  Kishore, R., Sharman, R. & Ramesh, R. (2004). 

Computational ontologies and information systems: I. 
Foundations. CAIS: 14 (158-183). 

[5]  McGuinness D. L. (2001). Ontologies Come of Age. In D. 

Fensel, J. Hendler, H. Lieberman, and W. Wahlster, eds. 
Spinning the Semantic Web: Bringing the World Wide Web 
to Its Full Potential. MIT Press, 2003. 

[6]  Schmitz, P. (2006). Inducing ontology from Flickr tags 

(2006). Collaborative Web Tagging Workshop, WWW2006. 

[7]  Srikanth M. & Srihari R. (2003). Exploiting syntactic 

structure of queries in a language modeling approach to IR. 
In Proceedings of the 12th CIKM. New Orleans, LA.

1028WWW 2008 / Poster PaperApril 21-25, 2008 · Beijing, China