A Web Personalization System based on Web Usage

Mining Techniques∗

Massimiliano Albanese

malbanes@unina.it

Antonio Picariello

picus@unina.it

Carlo and Lucio Sansone
{carlosan,sansone}@unina.it

Dipartimento di Informatica e Sistemistica

Universit`a di Napoli Federico II

via Claudio, 21 80125 Napoli, Italy

ABSTRACT
In the past few years, web usage mining techniques have grown
rapidly together with the explosive growth of the web, both in the
research and commercial areas.
In this work we present a Web
mining strategy for Web personalization based on a novel pattern
recognition strategy which analyzes and classiﬁes both static and
dynamic features. The results of experiments on the data from a
large commercial web site are presented to show the effectiveness
of the proposed system.

Categories and Subject Descriptors
H.2.8 [Database Management]: Database Applications—Data min-
ing; I.5.3 [Pattern Recognition]: Clustering—Algorithms

General Terms
Algorithms, Experimentation

Keywords
Clustering, web personalization, web usage mining

1.

INTRODUCTION

It is well known that the world wide web may be considered
as a huge and global information center. A web site usually con-
tains great amounts of information distributed through hundreds of
pages. Without proper guidance, a visitor often wanders aimlessly
without visiting important pages, loses interest and leaves the site
sooner than expected. This consideration is at the basis of the great
interest about web information mining both in the academic and
the industrial world. Usually, three types of data have to be man-
aged in a web site: content, structure and log data. Content data
consist of whatever is in a web page; structure data refer to the or-
ganization of the content; usage data are the usage patterns of web
sites. The application of the data mining techniques to these differ-
ent data sets is at the basis of the three different research directions
in the ﬁeld of web mining: web content mining, web structure min-
ing and web usage mining [5]. In this paper, we are interested in
the web usage mining domain, which is usually described as the
∗
This work has been supported by the Ministero dell’Istruzione, dell’Universit`a e
della Ricerca (MIUR) in the framework of the FIRB Project “Middleware for advanced
services over large-scale, wired-wireless distributed systems (WEB-MINDS)”

Copyright is held by the author/owner(s).
WWW2004, May 17–22, 2004, New York, New York, USA.
ACM 1-58113-912-8/04/0005.

process of customizing the content and the structure of web sites
in order to provide users with the information they are interested
in, without asking for it explicitly [3, 4]. Various personalization
schemes have been suggested in the literature. The novelty of our
strategy for personalizing the content of a web site is that we ad-
dress all the following issues: i) a two-phase classiﬁcation approach
is used rather than a single-phase one; ii) both user-provided data
and browsing patterns are taken into account; iii) both users and
contents are classiﬁed.

2. THE USAGE MINING STRATEGY

In this section we describe our novel web usage mining strat-
egy. It consists of two phases: in the ﬁrst one a pattern analysis
and classiﬁcation is performed by means of an unsupervised clus-
tering algorithm, using the registration information provided by the
users. In the second one a reclassiﬁcation is iteratively repeated
until a suitable convergence is reached. Reclassiﬁcation is used to
overcome the inaccuracy of the registration information and it is
accomplished by the log analysis and content management mod-
ules, based on the users’ navigational behavior. We use an un-
supervised clustering procedure for partitioning the feature space
built upon the user-provided data into a certain number of clusters
(each one representing a class) that group together users appearing
to be similar. In order to choose the optimal number of clusters, we
maximize the generalization capability of the system as deﬁned in
[2]. We propose the use of Autoclass C [1], a fuzzy unsupervised
clustering algorithm based on the Bayesian theory. Each cluster is
described through a likelihood function depending on some param-
eters. Given the number of classes, the Autoclass C Search module
estimates such parameters on the training data and ﬁnds the parti-
tion of the feature space that maximizes the log-likelihood value.
Once the optimal number of clusters has been chosen, the classi-
ﬁcation is performed by the prediction module of Autoclass C. By
using the Bayesian rule and the likelihood function of each class,
it attributes a user to that class which exhibits the maximum a pos-
teriori probability. If a new user registers itself to the web site, it
is classiﬁed according to the same scheme. Eventually, if a user
explicitly changes the data in its registration form, it is classiﬁed
again using the Autoclass C prediction module. The reclassiﬁca-
tion phase is based on the interaction of each user with the web site.
We assume that the interaction can be performed in three different
ways: queries containing some keywords, searches among directo-
ries, navigation of some pages. All the material on the web site is
managed by the content management module of the system, which
associates each resource (a keyword, a directory, a news headline
or an article) to a speciﬁc content category. On the other hand the

288Personalized contents

Site navigation

SOAP/XML Response
SOAP/XML Request

Registration
form

Web Server

Webserver Log
Users Database
Items Database

Webservice

User

Autoclass C

Classification Server

Reclassifier

Classification

System

Figure 1: System architecture

log analysis module records all the activities of the users. In order
to use these information for reclassifying users we need to attribute
each category to a speciﬁc user class. This can be accomplished by
considering the ﬁrst classiﬁcation performed by Autoclass C and
counting the number Ni of times in which the users of the i-class
requested resources belonging to a speciﬁc category, over a time
interval T . Each category is then attributed to the class that maxi-
mizes Ni. This way of classifying the content categories can suffer
the inaccuracy of the ﬁrst classiﬁcation. However, if the time in-
terval T is wide enough and the percentage of correctly classiﬁed
users is acceptable (say, greater than 50%), also the classiﬁcation
of the categories can be considered reliable. Now, a reclassiﬁca-
tion can be performed, by considering the resources that each user
requested in a predeﬁned time interval (reclassiﬁcation period). If
the majority of the requested contents belong to a class different
from the initial one, the user is reclassiﬁed. The whole reclassiﬁca-
tion process will lead to convergence if, after a suitable number of
reclassiﬁcations, the number of reclassiﬁed users goes to zero.

3. EXPERIMENTS

Figure 1 shows at a glance the overall architecture of the system.
We have used an experimental commercial web site called pari-
are.com, usually visited by hundreds of users a day, which gives
information about entertainment in the metropolitan area of Naples
(www.pariare.com). The system has been tested for a period of
six weeks. During this time the percentage of reclassiﬁed users
has been tracked together with the percentages of transitions from
a class to another one. The users, already registered to the web
site when the experimentation started, have been initially classi-
ﬁed using Autoclass C. First of all, we have determined the optimal
number of clusters for classifying the users. The initial data set was
made up of 2682 users. It was divided into a training and a testing
set respectively made up of 1282 and 1400 users. The features used
to classify the users are: (1) age; (2) sex; (3) category of places in
which users prefer to go; (4) number of times per week in which
users go out; (5) preferred day of the week to go out; (5) the Pari-
apoli parameter (a measure of the degree of interest towards the
virtual community of Pariare, evaluated as the normalized number
of the information ﬁelds ﬁlled in the registration form); (7) type of
entertainment users are looking for. Figure 2 shows how the per-
centage of reclassiﬁed users converges to zero, with respect to both
the sample users and all users. Figure 3.a shows the distribution of
the users among the classes produced by Autoclass C on the same
day of the last reclassiﬁcation, while ﬁgure 3.b shows the distribu-
tion of the users among the classes after the last reclassiﬁcation.
The comparison between the two distributions shows the beneﬁts
of adopting a classiﬁcation strategy that takes into account both
user-provided data and navigational behavior of the users: such a
strategy can best ﬁt the actual preferences of the users.

All users
Sample users

%

14,00

12,00

10,00

8,00

6,00

4,00

2,00

0,00

21/06/02

28/06/02

05/07/02

Time

12/07/02

19/07/02

Figure 2: Percentage of reclassiﬁed users vs time

a

b

Figure 3: Distribution of users among classes produced a) by
Autoclass C at the time of the last reclassiﬁcation; b) by the last
run of the reclassiﬁcation algorithm

4. CONCLUSIONS

In this work we have introduced an interesting solution based
on pattern recognition techniques, in order to classify a web user,
based on its interaction with the web site. Several experiments have
been performed and their results have been discussed. An off-line
processing approach has been chosen for the classiﬁcation task be-
cause it’s easy to verify that the users do not change their prefer-
ences so frequently to justify the burden of an on-line processing.
We are planning to keep working on (a) a generalization of the
proposed strategy in order to manage the structure of a web site; (b)
the introduction of ontologies in order to automatically capture the
web page contents from a semantical point of view; (c) a re-design
of the system for a full compatibility with the web services stan-
dards; (d) the comparison of the proposed solution with the other
ones presented in the literature and/or in the commercial areas.

5. REFERENCES
[1] P. Cheeseman and J. Stutz. Bayesian classiﬁcation (autoclass):

theory and results. Advances in Knowledge Discovery and
Data Mining, Eds. AAAI Press/MIT Press, pages 61–83, 1996.

[2] C. De Stefano, C. Sansone, and M. Vento. Evaluating

competitive learning strategies for handwritten character
recognition. In IEEE Int. Conf. on Systems, Man and
Cybernetics Proceedings, pages 759–764, Oct. 1994.
[3] M. Eirinaki and M. Vazirgiannis. Web mining for web

personalization. ACM TOIT., 3(1):2–27, Feb. 2003.

[4] M. Mulvenna, S. Anand, and A. Buchner. Personalization on
the net using web mining. CACM, 43(8):123–125, Aug. 2000.

[5] F. Zhang and H. Chang. Research and development in web
usage mining system–key issues and proposed solutions: a
survey. In First IEEE Int. Conf. on Machine Learning and
Cybernetics Proceedings, pages 986–990, Nov. 2002.

289