Bucefalo: A Tool for Intelligent Search and Filtering for

Web-based Personal Health Records

Francisco P. Romero, Jesus Serrano-Guerrero, Jose A. Olivas,

SMILE Research Group

University of Castilla-La Mancha

Department of Information Technologies and Systems

Ciudad Real, Spain

{franciscop.romero, jesus.serrano, joseangel.olivas}@uclm.es

ABSTRACT
In this poster, a tool named BUCEFALO is presented. This
tool is specially designed to improve the information re-
trieval tasks in web-based Personal Health Records (PHR).
This tool implements semantic and multilingual query ex-
pansion techniques and information ﬁltering algorithms in
order to help users ﬁnd the most valuable information about
a speciﬁc clinical case. The ﬁltering model is based on fuzzy
prototypes based ﬁltering, data quality measures, user pro-
ﬁles and healthcare ontologies. The ﬁrst experimental re-
sults illustrate the feasibility of this tool.

Categories and Subject Descriptors
H.3.3 [Information Systems]:
Retrieval—Information Filtering, Search Process

Information Storage and

General Terms
Performance, Management.

Keywords
Information Filtering, Web-based Personal Health Record.

1.

INTRODUCTION

In the last years, with the expansion of the World Wide
Web (WWW), the individually owned and controlled web-
based personal health record (Google Health1, Microsoft
Health Vault2 and NHS HealthSpace amongst others) have
appeared. Therefore, the amount of accessible information
about health care has increased enormously. This situation
means that a vast amount of information of varying quality
is disseminated. However, these new document repositories
create new opportunities and challenges. In order to provide
a more personalized and tailored service to their users, the
need of an eﬃcient and reliable information ﬁltering process
is critical.

The web-based PHRs use the health data exchange stan-
dards with the aim of representing clinical data. In these

1http://www.google.com/intl/es/health/about/index.html
2www.healthvault.com

Copyright is held by the author/owner(s).
WWW 2009, April 20–24, 2009, Madrid, Spain.
ACM 978-1-60558-487-4/09/04.

standards the relevant health information is reliably and un-
ambiguously tagged using XML within a single ﬁle. The use
of XML allows that this information can be read, understood
and processed for any application which uses the standard.
Google Health and Microsoft Health use a subset of the CCR
(Continuity of Care Record) standard. The CCR standard
is the most used patient health summary. A document in
CCR format is a XML document that consists of a header, a
footer, and a body of health data organized into as many as
17 sections, e.g. problems and conditions, medications list,
allergies list, family history, procedures, encounters, etc..

These web-based PHRs are examples of multi-user docu-
ment repositories. The clinical reports can be read for dif-
ferent users (nurses, physicians, students) and for diﬀerent
purposes (diagnosis, learning, research). When a document
repository has many users and many purposes, there are
diﬀerent points of view of the same repository structure.
Therefore, it is necessary a technique able to manage these
diﬀerent points of view in knowledge retrieval tasks. In this
case, fuzzy logic is especially recommendable due to its spe-
cial features to model information retrieval applications.

2. METHOD AND ARCHITECTURE

BUCEFALO provides a single interface for diﬀerent sour-
ces of patient records. These web-based PHRs could be
stored in Internet or in native XML databases (eXist, Soft-
ware AG Tamino, etc.). The user only has to send a query
and the system will answer the ﬁltered and adapted results.
There are two main components in our tool, the search
component and the ﬁltering component (Fig. 1). The ﬁrst
increases the semantic capability of user queries and the sec-
ond is used to organize the retrieved information. Both are
important to improve the capability of retrieving informa-
tion and to adapt the answer to each user. Therefore, both
are based on user proﬁles and healthcare ontologies.
2.1 Search Step

The search step consists of the following phases in order

to transform the original user query:

1. Abbreviations Processing: In medical records the use of
abbreviations is very frequent. In order to process the
query as fast as possible, the tool uses a simple eﬃcient
algorithm for extracting abbreviations and their deﬁ-
nitions from biomedical texts implemented by Shwartz
and Hearst [4].

WWW 2009 MADRID!Poster Sessions: Wednesday, April 22, 20091077• Fuzzy User Controller : The user controller is a set of
rules implemented by a fuzzy controller which repre-
sents the user preferences.

• User Proﬁle Filtering: The tool uses a user proﬁle with
two components. The ﬁrst component is an ontologi-
cal deﬁnition of the professional categories (specialist,
nurse, student), main search purposes (diagnosis, re-
search, learning) and the user domain of knowledge.
This representation is extracted from MeSH. The sec-
ond component is the information feedback. Each ob-
tained document has associated a relevance feedback
button asking the user for scoring the usefulness of
that result.

3. PRELIMINARY EXPERIMENTS

Some experiments have been carried out in order to ana-
lyze the tool perfomance. First, we have built a collection
of CCR documents using clinical cases extracted from In-
ternet and CCR templates. This collection has been stored
in a native XML database. Next, a test experiment has
been designed with three health care proﬀesionals: a nurse,
a physician and a researcher. In the experiment, they have
analyzed ten queries transformed and expanded according to
their user proﬁles. In this test we achieve an 85% of correct
transformations. The second user test consisted in analyz-
ing the results obtained after the ﬁltering process using the
above-mentioned queries. In this test the average number of
relevant documents that were ﬁltered was the 80%.

4. CONCLUSIONS AND OPEN ISSUES

This work presents a tool with the aim of improving the re-
trieval tasks in web-based Personal Healtcare Records based
on CCR XML documents. This approach will provide more
relevant documents for the users, due to the consideration of
their user proﬁles in the making search decisions and the use
of several techniques of query expansion and category-based
ﬁltering. At this moment, this tool is only a prototype. The
next step is assessing BUCEFALO with real world sources of
CCR documents and taking in account users’ dynamically
changing criteria of relevance. Nevertheless, several tests
with particular collections of documents have been carried
out, obtaining good results.

5. REFERENCES
[1] I. Caballero and E. Verbo. A Data Quality

Measurement Information Model based on ISO/IEC
15939. In Proceedings of the 12th International
Conference on Information Quality, 2007.

[2] J. Ellman. Eurowordnet: A multilingual database with

lexical semantic networks. Nat. Lang. Eng.,
9(4):427–430, 2003.

[3] F. P. Romero, J. A. Olivas, and P. J. Garces. Inference

based on fuzzy deformable prototypes for information
ﬁltering in dynamic web repositories. In Proceedings of
the 2007 IEEE International Conference on Fuzzy
Systems, pages 1403–1408, 2007.

[4] A. Schwartz and M. Hearst. A simple algorithm for

identifying abbreviation deﬁnitions in biomedical texts.
In Proceedings of the Paciﬁc Symposium on
Biocomputing (PSB 2003), pages 451-462, 2003.

Figure 1: Tool Architecture

2. Semantic Query Expansion: Once the user sends a
query to the system, the ﬁrst step is to build a set of ad-
ditional queries that complement the original one. In
these queries new terms semantically related to those
of the original one are included (synonyms, terms used
to deﬁne the correct sense, concepts stored in ontolo-
gies like MeSH3). This process is guided through the
user proﬁle information because the relevant terms are
not the same for diﬀerent users groups.

3. Multilingual Query Expansion: Medical care is a multi-
cultural and multilingual environment. This situation
means that the information is disseminated in diﬀer-
ent languages, and therefore, it is more diﬃcult to ﬁnd
the right information. When the tool processes non-
English documents or queries, it is used a component
called InterLingual Index (ILI) [2] to get the equivalent
meanings between diﬀerent languages and to expand
the query using diﬀerent languages.

2.2 Filtering Step

The large volume of results that are generated after the
query execution is a major problem among users. Therefore
it is necessary to ﬁlter and to retrieve relevant information.
In this tool, the ﬁltering model is based on four knowledge
components with the aim of improving the precision of the
obtained results.

• Filtering based on Data Quality: Applying data qual-
ity principles is a useful strategy for narrowing the
search space in order to minimize computational costs
and to increase the user satisfaction. In this tool some
data quality ﬁltering criteria such as the reliability,
completeness and timeliness are used [1].

• Filtering based on Fuzzy Prototypes [3]: It is applied
a special approach of category-based ﬁltering. In this
ﬁltering method the documents are divided into cat-
egories using concepts that ocurr in each document.
These categories are organized into a fuzzy hierarchi-
cal structure and represented as fuzzy deformable pro-
totypes. The ﬁltering process is performed using a
conceptual matching among the fuzzy prototypes and
the documents contents. Since ﬁltering is a dynamic
process, the hierarchy and the prototypes are automat-
ically updated.

3http://www.nlm.nih.gov/pubs/factsheets/mesh.html

WWW 2009 MADRID!Poster Sessions: Wednesday, April 22, 20091078